CIRCULAR
Guiding the contents of nutrition facts labels and method of nutrition facts labeling of food

Pursuant to the Government’s Decree No. 37/2026/ND-CP detailing a number of articles of, and providing measures for organizing and guiding the implementation of, the Law on Product and Goods Quality;
Pursuant to the Government’s Decree No. 42/2025/ND-CP defining the functions, tasks, powers and organizational structure of the Ministry of Health;
At the proposal of the Director of the Department of Legal Affairs;
The Minister of Health hereby promulgates the Circular guiding the contents of nutrition facts labels and method of nutrition facts labeling of food.

Chapter I 
GENERAL PROVISIONS

Article 1. Scope of regulation
1. This Circular guides the contents of nutrition facts labels, method of nutrition facts labeling of food, and roadmap for application to packaged foods that are manufactured, traded, imported and circulated in Vietnam.
2. This Circular does not regulate the following raw materials and food:
a) Ingredients and food not directly sold to consumers, including edible ice;
b) Single-ingredient food;
c) Bottled natural mineral water and drinking water (including also those with CO2 and/or flavorings added only);
d) Edible salt, refined salt;
dd) Vinegar and vinegar substitutes including those with added flavorings only;
e) Flavorings, additives, food processing aids;
g) Food enzymes;
h) Tea and coffee not containing other additional ingredients other than colorings and flavorings;
i) Health supplements;
k) Alcoholic beverages;
l) Food specified at Point e, Clause 2, Article 35 of the Government’s Decree No. 37/2017/ND-CP Detailing a number of articles, and providing measures to organize and guide the implementation, of the Law on Product and Goods Quality, and food specified in Clauses 1 and 2, Article 25 of the Government’s Decree No. 15/2018/ND-CP detailing a number of articles of the Law on Food Safety;
m) Foods manufactured by small food traders defined in Clause 10, Article 3 of Decree No. 15/2018/ND-CP.
3. The organizations and individuals specified in Clause 2 of this Article that voluntarily state nutrition facts on their food labels shall comply with this Circular.
Article 2. Subjects of application
This Circular applies to organizations and individuals responsible for food labeling (hereinafter referred to as organizations and individuals); state management agencies in charge of food safety; and agencies, organizations and individuals engaged in nutrition facts labeling of food.
Article 3. Interpretation of terms
In this Circular, the terms below are construed as follows:
1. Energy means the chemical energy absorbed by a human body from food to sustain life, perform activities and grow, which is calculated by energy conversion coefficients of energy components of food.
2. Protein means nitrogen-containing organic compound composed of amino acids, which is conventionally calculated by applying conversion coefficients of organic nitrogen values in food.
3. Carbohydrate mean a compound of carbon, oxygen and hydrogen which are arranged in the form of a monosaccharide or multiple monosaccharides and do not include fiber.
4. Total sugars include the total amount of monosaccarids and disaccarids in food (including natural sugars and sugars added to food).
5. Total fat means an organic compound that does not contain nitrogen; its main components are triglycerides, fatty acids, cholesterol and phospholipids.
6. Saturated fat means a type of fat in which the fatty acid chains contain no double bond in the chemical structure.
7. Sodium means an alkali metal mineral, of which the chemical symbol is Na, found in salts, spices and some other natural foods and food additives.
8. Nutrient reference value means a numerical value, recommended for Vietnamese people based on scientific data on the daily nutrition needed to maintain optimal nutritional status and reduce the risk of have diet-related non-communicable diseases.
Article 4. Principles for displaying nutrition facts labels
1. The display of nutrition facts labels must comply with the provisions of this Circular, the law on good labeling, and relevant law on food safety.
2. Ensuring accuracy without causing false or misleading interpretations about the nutritional value of food products.
3. Nutrition facts must be displayed on the food labels in a way that makes them easy to understand, noticeable, and cannot be erased.

Chapter II
CONTENTS OF NUTRITION FACTS LABELS AND METHOD OF NUTRITION FACTS LABELING OF FOOD

Article 5. Content of nutritional ingredients
1. For food produced, traded, imported, and circulated in Vietnam, the following nutritional ingredients must be displayed:
a) Energy;
b) Protein;
c) Carbohydrates;
d) Fat;
dd) Sodium.
2. For beverages, processed milk with added sugar specified in Decree No. 15/2018/ND-CP and food with other added sugar: display 05 nutritional ingredients specified in Clause 1 of this Article and total sugars.
3. For fried food: display 05 nutritional ingredients specified in Clause 1 of this Article and saturated fat.
4. For food not containing or containing nutritional ingredients specified in Clauses 1, 2 and 3 of this Article but the nutritional value of such ingredients is less than the value specified in Appendix I to this Circular, that nutritional ingredients are not required to be displayed on food labels.
Article 6. Nutrition facts labeling
1. Information about energy value is calculated in kilocalories (kcal); information on protein, carbohydrate, fat, saturated fat, and total sugar content is calculated in grams (g); and information on sodium content is calculated in milligrams (mg). Nutritional ingredient information is expressed in 100g or 100ml of food or in a serving that has been determined in content on the label or per packaged portion when the number of portions in that package is announced.
2. Organizations and individuals may additionally display a percentage (%) of the nutrient reference value for nutritional ingredients specified in Article 5 of this Circular. Any organization or individual voluntarily indicating an additional percentage (%) of the nutrient reference value shall comply with the instructions in Appendix II to this Circular.
3. The nutritional value of the nutritional ingredients specified in Article 5 of this Circular must be expressed in numbers, with complete nutrition facts as prescribed on the food label; and must be displayed in an easily recognizable position, with all the prescribed content and comply with the principles specified in Article 4 of this Circular.
4. The tolerance range values of nutritional ingredients specified in Articles 5 and 6 of this Circular shall comply with the provisions of Clause 1, Article 49 of Decree No. 37/2026/ND-CP.

Chapter III 
IMPLEMENTATION PROVISIONS

Article 7. Effect
1. This Circular takes effect from July 10, 2026.
2. Circular No. 29/2023/TT-BYT dated December 30, 2023, of the Minister of Health, guiding the contents of nutrition facts labels and method of nutrition facts labeling of food, ceases to be effective from the effective date of this Circular.
Article 8. Transitional provisions
Food whose labels do not contain nutritional ingredients or nutritional values according to the regulations of this Circular that have been manufactured, traded, imported, and circulated in Vietnam before January 01, 2026, may continue to be circulated until the expiration date stated on the food labels.
Article 9. Reference provisions
In case any legal documents referred to in this Circular are amended, supplemented or replaced, the new ones shall prevail.
Article 10. Implementation organization
1. Unit affiliated to the Ministry of Health shall have the following responsibilities:
a) The Vietnam Food Administration shall assume the prime responsibility for, and coordinate with the Department of Legal Affairs, the Agency for Disease Control, the Agency for Maternal and Child Health and concerned units in, organizing the dissemination and guiding the implementation of this Circular.
b)  The Vietnam Food Administration, the Agency for Disease Control and the Agency for Maternal and Child Health shall, based on their assigned functions and tasks, coordinate with relevant agencies and units of line ministries in charge of food industry as assigned in Decree No. 15/2018/ND-CP, organize the implementation of this Circular. 
c) The Institute of Nutrition shall study, review and propose the amendment and updating of the nutrient reference value specified in Appendix II to this Circular.
2. People's Committees of provinces and centrally-run cities shall direct the implementation of this Circular in their respective localities.
Article 11. Implementation responsibilities
Heads of units affiliated to the Ministry of Health, and concerned agencies, organizations, and individuals shall implement this Circular.
Any difficulties arising in the course of implementation should be reported to the Ministry of Health (the Vietnam Food Administration) for consideration and settlement.
Appendix I
Non-mandatory declaration of nutritional ingredients on food labels
(Attached to the Minister of Health’s Circular No. 30/2026/TT-BYT dated July 09, 2026)

1. Energy value ≤ 4 kcal per 100 ml (liquid).
2. Protein ≤ 40.5 g per 100 g (solid) or per 100 ml (liquid).
3. Carbohydrate ≤ 0.5 g per 100 g (solid) or per 100 ml (liquid).
4. Fat ≤ 0.5 g per 100 g (solid) or per 100 ml (liquid).
5. Saturated fat ≤ 0.1 g per 100 g (solid) or ≤ 0.1 g per 100 ml (liquid).
6. Total sugars ≤ 0.5 g per 100 g (solid) or ≤ 0.5 g per 100 ml (liquid).
7. Sodium value ≤ 0.005 g per 100 g. 
_________________
1 This Appendix is only to determine the non-mandatory declaration of nutritional ingredients on food labels and is not used for other purposes.


Appendix II
Nutrient reference value
(Attached to the Minister of Health’s Circular No. 30/2026/TT-BYT dated July 09, 2026)

No.	Nutrient	Unit	Nutrient reference value	Grounds for recommendation
1	Energy	Kcal	2000	Based on research on the nutritional needs of Vietnamese people and dietary data from the National Nutrition Census
2	Protein	g	50	According to recommendations of the Codex Alimentarius Commission (Codex)
3	Carbohydrates	g	325	Based on research on recommended nutritional needs for Vietnamese people
4	Total sugars	g	-	Not yet recommended
5	Fat, in which: Saturated fat	g
g	56
20	Fat: Based on research and calculations from the nutritional needs of Vietnamese people, fat diets should only provide a maximum of 25% of total dietary energy;
Saturated fat: According to recommendations of Codex
6	Sodium	mg	2000	According to recommendations of the World Health Organization (WHO) and recommendations of Codex