
DECREE
Prescribing sanctions for administrative violations of regulations on security, public order and social safety; social vices prevention and combat; domestic violence prevention and control

Pursuant to the Law No. 63/2025/QH15 on Organization of the Government;
Pursuant to the Law No. 15/2012/QH13 on Handling of Administrative violations, which is amended and supplemented under Law No. 67/2020/QH14 and Law No. 88/2025/QH15;
Pursuant to the Law No. 28/2009/QH12 on Judicial Records;
Pursuant to the Law No. 47/2014/QH13 on Foreigners’ Entry into, Exit from, Transit through, and Residence in Vietnam, which is amended and supplemented under Law No. 51/2019/QH14 and Law No. 23/2023/QH15;
Pursuant to the Law No. 13/2017/QH14 on Protective Security, which is amended and supplemented under Law No. 40/2024/QH15;
Pursuant to the Law No. 29/2018/QH14 on Protection of State Secrets;
Pursuant to the Law No. 41/2019/QH14 on Execution of Criminal Judgments;
Pursuant to the Law No. 49/2019/QH14 on Entry and Exit of Vietnamese citizens, which is amended and supplemented under Law No. 23/2023/QH15;
Pursuant to the Law No. 68/2020/QH14 on Residence;
Pursuant to the Law No. 72/2020/QH14 on Environmental Protection;
Pursuant to the Law No. 73/2021/QH14 on Drug Prevention and Control;
Pursuant to the Law No. 13/2022/QH15 on Domestic Violence Prevention and Control;
Pursuant to the Law No. 26/2023/QH15 on Identity;
Pursuant to the Law No. 30/2023/QH15 on the Force Participating in the Protection of Security and Order at the Grassroots Level;
Pursuant to the Law No. 42/2024/QH15 on Management and Use of Weapons, Explosive Materials and Support Tools;
Pursuant to the Ordinance No. 10/2003/PL-UBTVQH11 on Prostitution Prevention and Combat;
At the proposal of the Minister of Public Security;
The Government hereby promulgates the Decree prescribing sanctions for administrative violations of regulations on security, public order and social safety; social vices prevention and combat; domestic violence prevention and control.

Chapter I
GENERAL PROVISIONS

Article 1. Scope of regulation
1. This Decree prescribes administrative violations, forms and levels of sanctions, and remedial measures for each administrative violation, competence to draw up records, competence to impose sanctions, and specific fines to be imposed by each position on administrative violations of regulations on security, public order and social safety; social vices prevention and combat; and domestic violence prevention and control.
2. Other Government’s Decrees prescribing sanctions for administrative violations in relevant fields under state governance shall apply for handling of, and imposition of sanctions on, administrative violations in other fields directly related to security, public order, and social safety; social vices prevention and combat; domestic violence prevention and control not prescribed in this Decree.
Article 2. Subjects of application
1. Vietnamese individuals and organizations; foreign individuals and organizations committing administrative violations of regulations on security, public order and social safety; social vices prevention and combat; domestic violence prevention and control within the territory, internal waters, territorial sea, contiguous zone, exclusive economic zone and continental shelf of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam; on aircraft bearing Vietnamese nationality, and on vessels flying the Vietnamese national flag.
2. Sanctions as prescribed in this Decree shall be imposable on the violations prescribed in this Decree committed by Vietnamese citizens and organizations outside the territory of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam.
3. Authorities and persons competent to impose sanctions on administrative violations of regulations on security, public order and social safety; social vices prevention and combat; domestic violence prevention and control, and related individuals and organizations.
Article 3. Sanctioning forms for administrative violations, remedial measures, regulations on completed and ongoing administrative violations, and sanctions for repeated administrative violations
1. Principal sanctions prescribed in this Decree include:
a) Warning;
b) Fine.
2. Additional sanctions prescribed in this Decree include:
a) Deprivation of the right to use a permit or practising certificate for a definite period of time;
b) Temporary suspension of operations for a definite period of time;
c) Confiscation of objects as evidence of, and means used to commit, an administrative violation (hereinafter referred to as object evidence of the administrative violation);
d) Expulsion.
3. Remedial measures:
a) Remedial measures prescribed at Points a, c, e and i, Clause 1, Article 28 of the Law on Handling of Administrative Violations (amended and supplemented in 2020 and 2025) (hereinafter collectively referred to as the Law on Handling of Administrative Violations);
b) Other measures specifically prescribed in Chapter II of this Decree.
4. Procedures for enforcing the remedial measure of forcible surrender of permits and practicing certificates:
a) The person competent to make the decision to enforce, and the organization or individual committing the violation that is responsible for enforcing, the remedial measure of forcible surrender of a permit or practicing certificate shall comply with Clauses 1, 2, 3 and 4, Article 85 of the Law on Handling of Administrative Violations;
b) The person competent to make the decision to enforce the remedial measure as prescribed at Point a of this Clause shall send a written notice to the competent authority or person that issued the permit or practising certificate;
c) In case where a permit or practising certificate is issued in electronic form or presented as a data message, the competent authority or person shall require the surrender of such permit or practising certificate in the electronic environment in accordance with regulations, provided that the conditions on infrastructure, technology, and information are satisfied. The forcible surrender of permits and practicing certificates shall have its status updated on the database or electronic identity cards, or electronic identification accounts in accordance with regulations.
5. Completed and ongoing administrative violations are determined in accordance with Clause 1, Article 8 of the Government’s Decree No. 118/2021/ND-CP dated December 23, 2021, detailing a number of articles of, and measures for implementing, the Law on Handling of Administrative Violations (amended and supplemented under the Government’s Decree No. 68/2025/ND-CP dated March 18, 2025, and the Government’s Decree No. 190/2025/ND-CP dated July 01, 2025).
6. If an organization or individual committing administrative violations multiple times, a sanction shall be imposed on each separate violation thereof, unless these are violations prescribed at Point c, Clause 2, Article 12; Points e and i, Clause 2, Points p, q and t, Clause 3, Points d and dd, Clause 4, Article 15; Articles 32, 33 and 36 of this Decree separately that have been separately committed but are detected at the same time on which no sanction has been imposed and the statute of limitations for imposing sanctions has not expired, in which case sanctions shall be imposed on such violations in one time and the aggravating circumstance of repetition shall be applied thereto.
Article 4. Execution of decisions on imposition of sanctions, determination of illicit profits earned from the commission of administrative violations, dossiers of sanctions on administrative violations
1. Decisions on sanctioning of administrative violations shall be enforced in accordance with Section 2, Chapter III, Part Two of the Law on Handling of Administrative Violations and Articles 16, 19, 20 and 22 of the Government’s Decree No. 118/2021/ND-CP dated December 23, 2021 detailing a number of articles of, and measures to implement, the Law on Handling of Administrative Violations (as amended and supplemented under the Government’s Decree No. 68/2025/ND-CP dated March 18, 2025 and Decree No. 190/2025/ND-CP dated July 01, 2025).
2. Illicit profits earned from the commission of administrative violations as prescribed in this Decree are objects, money, valuable papers, or other assets derived from any administrative violation committed by such an individual or organization, and are determined as follows:
a) Illicit profits that are money include the total amount of money gained by the organization or individual from the administrative violation and shall be equal to the proceeds from the transfer or consumption of goods or the provision of services involved in the violation remaining after deducting the direct costs of such goods or services, which are based on dossiers and documents proving the legality and validity of such costs provided by the organization or individual that committed the violation;
b) Illicit profits that are valuable papers include all valuable papers acquired by the organization or individual that committed the administrative violation through such violation. In case where the valuable papers have been transferred, the illicit profits shall be equal to the actual proceeds at the time of transfer; In case where the valuable papers have been dispersed or destroyed, the illicit profits shall be based on the book value of the issuing entities of such valuable papers at the time of dispersal or destruction;
c) Illicit profits that are objects or other assets acquired by the organization or individual that committed the administrative violation through such violation include other assets as prescribed by the Civil Code. In case where the objects or other assets have been transferred, consumed, or destroyed, the illicit profits shall be equal to an amount equivalent to the market value of assets of the same type; or based on the book value of the assets (if there is no market value); or determined by the monetary value of the assets stated on the export declaration or import declaration (In case of export or import goods) of the organization or individual that committed the violation remaining after deducting the direct costs of such goods, based on dossiers and documents proving the legality and validity of such costs.
3. Written records, materials, documents, or other relevant documents recording the enforcement of sanctions and remedial measures must be included in the administrative violation handling dossiers as prescribed in Article 57 of the Law on Handling of Administrative Violations.
Article 5. Maximum fines and organizations subject to sanctions for administrative violations
1. The maximum fine imposable on any violation of the regulations on domestic violence prevention and control is VND 30,000,000 if the violator is an individual or VND 60,000,000 if the violator is an organization; the maximum fine imposable on any violation of the regulations on security, public order and social safety is VND 40,000,000 if the violator is an individual or VND 80,000,000 if the violator is an organization; the maximum fine imposable on any violation of the regulations on social vices prevention and control is VND 75,000,000 if the violator is an individual or VND 150,000,000 if the violator is an organization.
2. The fines prescribed in Chapter II of this Decree are applicable to administrative violations committed by individuals. If organizations commit the same violations, the fines imposed on them shall be twice those applicable to individuals.
3. The organizations prescribed in Clauses 1 and 2 of this Article include:
a) Economic organizations and their affiliates established in accordance with the law regulations;
b) The Vietnam Fatherland Front, socio-political organizations, socio-political-professional organizations, social organizations, socio-professional organizations, social funds, charity funds, non-governmental organizations, and their affiliates;
c) State authorities, units of the People’s Armed Forces, agencies within the organizational structure of the Communist Party of Vietnam (except those committing violations which fall within the scope of state-governance tasks vested to them);
d) Non-business units;
dd) Religious institutions and their sub-organizations, foreign organizations;
e) Other organizations lawfully established in accordance with the law regulations.
4. Households and business households that register their business in accordance with the law regulations and violate the regulations of this Decree shall be subject to the same sanctions as individuals.
Article 6. Statute of limitations for sanctioning administrative violations
1. The statute of limitations for imposing a sanction on any administrative violation of the regulations on security, public order and social safety; social vices prevention and combat; domestic violence prevention and control is 01 year.
2. The start time of the statute of limitations for imposition of a sanction on an administrative violation as prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article shall be determined in accordance with Article 6 of the Law on Handling of Administrative Violations.
Article 7. Sanctioning administrative violations regarding domestic violence committed by divorced persons; cohabiting persons; persons who are parents, stepchildren, or siblings of divorced persons or of cohabiting persons; and persons who were adoptive parents or adopted children of one another
1. Divorced persons who commit the violations prescribed in Article 37; Article 39; Points a and c, Clause 1, and Clause 2 of Article 40; Clause 1, and Point a, Clause 2 of Article 41; and Article 45 of this Decree are also subject to sanctions imposable thereon.
2. Cohabiting persons who commit the violations prescribed in Article 37; Point a, Clause 1, Article 38; Article 39; Clause 1, Clause 2 and Clause 3, Article 40; Clause 1 and Clause 2, Article 41; Points c, d and dd, Clause 1, Article 44; and Article 45 of this Decree are also subject to sanctions imposable thereon.
3. Persons who are parents, stepchildren, siblings of divorced persons or of cohabiting persons, and commit the violations prescribed in Article 37; Clause 1, Article 39; Points a and c, Clause 1, and Point a, Clause 2, Article 40 of this Decree are also subject to sanctions imposable thereon.
4. Persons who were adoptive parents or adopted children of one another and commit the violations prescribed in Article 37; Article 39; Clause 2, Article 40; Clause 1, and Point a, Clause 2, Article 41; and Article 45 of this Decree are also subject to sanctions imposable thereon.

Chapter II
ADMINISTRATIVE VIOLATIONS, SANCTIONS, AND REMEDIAL MEASURES

Section 1
ADMINISTRATIVE VIOLATIONS OF REGULATIONS ON SECURITY, PUBLIC ORDER AND SOCIAL SAFETY

Article 8. Violations of regulations on public order
1. A warning or a fine of between VND 500,000 and VND 1,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Causing public disorder in venues of art performance, cultural and sporting events, and commercial activities, offices of authorities and organizations, residential areas, or other public places, unless otherwise prescribed at Point a, Clause 2 of this Article;
b) Letting domestic animals run loose in urban areas or public places;
c) Letting domestic animals, crops, or other objects encroach upon roadways, pavements, flower gardens, playgrounds, urban areas, or shared community areas in residential quarters or urban zones;
d) Unintentionally causing injury or harming the health of other persons, which is not serious enough for penal liability examination;
dd) Throwing rubbish or putting anything else on fences and areas adjacent to secured premises;
e) Raising livestock and poultry in condominiums.
2. A fine of between VND 2,000,000 and VND 3,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Drinking alcohols, beers or using stimulants, then causing public disorder;
b) Organizing or participating in crowded gatherings in public places, causing public disorder;
c) Letting domestic animals cause injury or damage to the assets of another organization or individual;
d) Flying kites, balloons, and all kinds of flying toys over restricted areas or secured premises;
dd) Operating unmanned aerial vehicles or ultralights that have not been registered for flight permits, organizing aviation activities without permits or operating registered aircraft at the wrong time and place, and beyond the allowable coordinates and limits;
e) Obstructing, harassing or annoying other persons during loading and unloading, transportation, keeping of luggage at markets, wharves, bus stations, airports, ports, railway stations and other public places;
g) Burning and flying “sky lanterns”;
h) Failing to carry all required dossiers and documents when operating unmanned aerial vehicles and ultralights;
i) Operating unmanned aerial vehicles or ultralights when the operators thereof are not eligible for operating such aircraft;
k) Operating unmanned aerial vehicles and ultralights when they are not eligible for operating;
l) Paint, write, draw, paste, or attach images or contents on walls, power poles or other locations in residential areas, public places, condominiums, residences of citizens or other works without the permission of competent authorities.
3. A fine of between VND 3,000,000 and VND 4,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Offending the honor and dignity of other persons, which is not serious enough for penal liability examination; or provoking, teasing, insulting, or defaming the honor and dignity of other persons, unless otherwise prescribed at Point b, Clause 2, Article 26; and Clauses 1 and 2, Article 39 of this Decree;
b) Organizing, hiring, aiding, abetting, enticing, inducing, or inciting other persons to intentionally cause injury or harm the health of other persons, or to harm the honor and dignity of other persons, which is not serious enough for penal liability examination;
c) Intentionally providing false or untruthful information to competent authorities and organizations;
d) Calling the emergency phone numbers (111, 113, 114, 115) or hotlines of authorities or organizations to harass, threaten, or offend other persons;
dd) Designing, manufacturing, repairing, maintaining, testing aircraft, engines, propellers, and equipment of unmanned aerial vehicles and ultralights without obtaining sufficient legal dossiers and documents granted by competent State authorities or without registration as prescribed;
e) Designing, manufacturing, repairing, maintaining, testing aircraft, engines, propellers, and equipment of unmanned aerial vehicles and ultralights but failing to meet the requirement of human resources as stated in the permits issued by competent authorities;
g) Designing, manufacturing, repairing, maintaining, testing aircraft, engines, propellers, and equipment of unmanned aerial vehicles and ultralights but failing to meet the requirements of equipment, means, tools, workshops, and grounds prescribed in the permits issued by competent authorities;
h) Designing, manufacturing, repairing, maintaining, testing aircraft, engines, propellers, and equipment of unmanned aerial vehicles and ultralights but failing to meet the security and safety standards and environmental conditions as prescribed by the law regulations.
4. A fine of between VND 4,000,000 and VND 6,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Disturbing public order; or organizing, hiring, aiding, abetting, enticing, inducing, or inciting other persons to disturb public order, which is not serious enough for penal liability examination, unless otherwise prescribed at Point c, Clause 4 and Point b, Clause 5 of this Article;
b) Storing or hiding on one’s person, in objects or means of transport tools and devices used in labor, production, and daily life capable of causing damage for the purpose of disturbing public order, intentionally causing injury or harming the health of other persons;
c) Causing disturbance or obstructing normal operation of authorities and organizations;
d) Organizing or participating in illegal crowded gatherings at offices of the Communist Party of Vietnam, State authorities, or restricted places and areas;
dd) Dumping or throwing wastes, dirt, chemicals, bricks, soil, stones, sand or other objects into houses, places of residence, people, objects, assets of other persons, offices of authorities and organizations, workplaces, places of production and business, secured premises, and guard posts;
e) Illegally trespassing secured premises and guard posts;
g) Using unmanned aerial vehicles and ultralights flying flags, hanging banners, distributing leaflets, or carrying loudspeakers beyond the allowable scope of the flight permits;
h) Creating, disseminating, or circulating documents or images with distorted, fabricated, or slanderous content, thereby affecting the reputation of authorities, organizations, individuals, or carrying banners, flags, slogans in any forms to oppose the guidelines, policies of the Party, and laws of the State, unless otherwise committing the violations prescribed in Clause 1, Article 101 of the Government’s Decree No. 15/2020/ND-CP dated February 03, 2020, prescribing sanctions for administrative violations of regulations on post, telecommunications, radio frequencies, information technology and electronic transactions (amended and supplemented under the Government’s Decree No. 14/2022/ND-CP dated January 27, 2022).
5. A fine of between VND 6,000,000 and VND 8,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Intentionally causing injury or harming the health of other persons, which is not serious enough for penal liability examination, unless otherwise prescribed in Clause 2 and Point b, Clause 3, Article 37 of this Decree;
b) Disturbing public order while carrying gears, objects, or other tools capable of inflicting damage, which is not serious enough for penal liability examination;
c) Filming, taking photos, drawing maps of restricted places and areas related to national defense and security;
d) Committing sexual harassment and assault;
dd) Committing pornographic or sexually suggestive acts in public places;
e) Designing, manufacturing, repairing, maintaining, testing aircraft, engines, propellers, and equipment of unmanned aerial vehicles and ultralights unconformable with the registered type and quality under the permits issued by competent authorities;
g) Using unmanned aerial vehicles and ultralights to launch, shoot and drop from above harmful or dangerous objects or substances without permission;
h) Committing obscene acts against persons under 16 years of age, which is not serious enough for penal liability examination.
6. A fine of between VND 8,000,000 and VND 9,000,000 shall be imposed on using unmanned aerial vehicles and ultralights for aerial filming or photography without permission.
7. A fine of between VND 9,000,000 and VND 12,000,000 shall be imposed on conducting flight operations of unmanned aerial vehicles and ultralights in contravention of the flight permits issued by competent authorities.
8. A fine of between VND 12,000,000 and VND 15,000,000 shall be imposed on operating unmanned aerial vehicles and ultralights but failing to comply with orders and instructions of the authorities managing, operating, and supervising aviation activities.
9. A fine of between VND 15,000,000 and VND 20,000,000 shall be imposed on designing, manufacturing, repairing, maintaining, and testing aircraft, engines, propellers, and equipment of unmanned aerial vehicles and ultralights without permits issued by competent authorities.
10. A fine of between VND 20,000,000 and VND 30,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Conducting unmanned flight operations or operating ultralights without a flight permit issued by a competent authority;
b) Committing rape or sexual coercion without being held criminally liable, unless otherwise prescribed at Point b, Clause 2, Article 41 of this Decree.
11. A fine of between VND 30,000,000 and VND 40,000,000 shall be imposed on using unmanned aerial vehicles and ultralights to obstruct or cause unsafety to other aircraft.
12. The Government’s Decree prescribing sanctions for administrative violations of regulations on environmental protection and relevant legal normative documents shall apply for handling of, and imposition of sanctions on, administrative violations of regulations on general hygiene.
13. Additional sanctions:
a) Confiscation of object evidence of the administrative violations prescribed at Points a, d, dd and g, Clause 2; Points a, b, c, d, dd, g, and h, Clause 4; Points a, b, c and g, Clause 5; Clause 6; Point a, Clause 10 of this Article;
b) Deprivation of the establishments’ right to use the permits to design, manufacture, repair, maintain and test aircraft, engines, propellers, and equipment of unmanned aerial vehicles and ultralights for a definite period of between 03 and 06 months in case of committing the violations prescribed at Points g and h, Clause 3 of this Article;
c) Deprivation of the right to use the flight permit for a definite period of between 03 and 06 months in case of committing the violations prescribed in Clauses 6, 7, 8 and 11 of this Article;
d) Depending on the nature, severity, and consequences of the violation, the violator, and any mitigating or aggravating circumstances, the imposition of the sanction of expulsion on any foreign national who commits any administrative violation prescribed at Points dd and e, Clause 4 of this Article may be considered.
14. Remedial measures:
a) Forcible restoration of the original condition in case of committing the violations prescribed at Point c, Clause 1, Point l, Clause 2 and Point dd, Clause 4 of this Article;
b) Forcible correction of false or misleading information in case of committing the violations prescribed at Point a, Clause 3 and Point h, Clause 4 of this Article;
c) Forcible public apology at private home, workplace, other locations or on mass media in case of committing the violations prescribed at Point a, Clause 3 and Point d, Clause 5 of this Article; unless otherwise the victim submits a request for non-application thereof;
d) Forcible implementation of measures to remediate environmental pollution in case of committing the violation prescribed at Point g, Clause 5 of this Article;
dd) Forcible payment of all expenses for medical examination and treatment in case of committing the violations prescribed at Point d, Clause 1, Point c, Clause 2, Point b, Clause 3, and Point a, Clause 5 of this Article.
Article 9. Violations of regulations on ensuring public tranquility
1. A warning or a fine of between VND 500,000 and VND 1,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Failing to comply with the regulations on keeping quiet of medical examination and treatment establishments, nursing homes, schools, or other places where keeping silence is a must;
b) Selling food and beverages beyond the hours prescribed by the People’s Committees of provinces or municipalities.
2. A fine of between VND 1,000,000 and VND 2,000,000 shall be imposed on using loudspeakers, gongs, drums, whistles, horns, or other instruments to cheer in public places without permission of competent authorities.
3. The Government’s Decree prescribing sanctions for administrative violations of regulations on environmental protection and relevant legal normative documents shall apply for handling of, and imposition of sanctions on, administrative violations of regulations on noise not yet prescribed in this Decree.
4. Additional sanctions:
Confiscation of object evidence of the administrative violation prescribed in Clause 2 of this Article.
Article 10. Violations of regulations on registration and management of residence
1. A warning or a fine of between VND 500,000 and VND 1,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Failing to comply with the law regulations on permanent residence registration, temporary residence registration, permanent residence deregistration, temporary residence deregistration, household separation, adjustment of residence information in the Residence Database, or declaration of residence information;
b) Failing to comply with the law regulations on notification of stay and declaration of temporary absence;
c) Failing to present residence-related documents or residence information on the national identification application upon request for inspection of competent authorities or persons.
2. A fine of between VND 2,000,000 and VND 4,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Tampering with or falsifying residence certifications or other residence-related documents;
b) Buying, selling, renting, or leasing residence certifications other residence-related documents with the attempt to commit illegal acts;
c) Borrowing, lending, or using residence certifications and other residence-related documents with the attempt to commit illegal acts;
d) Having resided in a new lawful place of residence and meeting the conditions for residence registration, but failing to carry out the procedures for registering the change of the place of residence as prescribed by the law regulations;
dd) Failing to notify the stay of between 01 and 03 guests by accommodation businesses, dormitories, medical treatment establishments, tourist accommodation establishments, accommodation establishments in industrial parks, and other establishments;
e) Provoking, inciting, enticing, seducing, brokering, or coercing other persons to violate the law regulations on residence;
g) Offering or accepting pledges which are residence-related documents;
h) Destroying residence-related documents.
3. A fine of between VND 4,000,000 and VND 8,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Allowing other persons to register residence at one’s place for profit;
b) Failing to notify the stay of between 04 and 08 guests by accommodation businesses, dormitories, medical treatment establishments, tourist accommodation establishments, accommodation establishments in industrial parks, and other establishments;
c) Obstructing citizens from exercising their freedom of residence;
d) Obstructing, or failing to comply with, the inspection of permanent residence, temporary residence, stay, temporary absence, residence in accordance with the law regulations.
4. A fine of between VND 8,000,000 and VND 12,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Providing untruthful information or documents regarding residence for the purpose of permanent residence registration, temporary residence registration, declaration of residence information, household separation, adjustment of residence information in the Residence Database, permanent residence deregistration, temporary residence deregistration, stay extension, declaration of temporary absence, issuance of other residence-related documents, or commission of other illegal acts;
b) Falsifying data or using falsified data regarding residence for the purpose of permanent residence registration, temporary residence registration, declaration of residence information, household separation, adjustment of residence information in the Residence Database, permanent residence deregistration, temporary residence deregistration, stay extension, declaration of temporary absence, issuance of other residence-related documents, or commission of other illegal acts;
c) Falsifying residence information or using falsified residence information on the national identification application;
d) Failing to notify the stay of 09 guests or more by accommodation businesses, dormitories, medical treatment establishments, tourist accommodation establishments, accommodation establishments in industrial parks, and other establishments.
5. Additional sanctions:
Confiscation of object evidence of the administrative violations prescribed at Points a and h, Clause 2; and Points a, b and c, Clause 4 of this Article.
6. Remedial measures:
Forcible refund of illicit profits earned from the commission of violations prescribed at Points b and g, Clause 2; Point a, Clause 3 of this Article.
Article 11. Violations of regulations on issuance, management, use of citizen identity cards, identity cards, electronic identity cards or identity certificates
1. A warning or a fine of between VND 500,000 and VND 1,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Failing to present citizen identity cards, identity cards, electronic identity cards, identity certificates upon request for inspection of competent authorities or persons;
b) Failing to comply with the law regulations on issuance, replacement, or re-issuance of identity cards, identity certificates, electronic identity cards, unless otherwise prescribed in Clause 3 of this Article;
c) Failing to submit citizen identity cards, identity cards or identity certificates to the authorities executing custody decisions or temporary detention decisions, the authorities executing the imprisonment sentences, the authorities executing the decisions on sending to reformatories, compulsory correctional education establishments, or compulsory drug rehabilitation establishments in accordance with the law regulations; failing to submit citizen identity cards, identity cards, identity certificates to the identity authorities in case of applying for issuance of replacement identity cards, identity certificates or invalidation and re-establishment of personal identification numbers.
2. A fine of between VND 2,000,000 and VND 4,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Appropriating or illegally using another person’s citizen identity card, identity card, electronic identity card, identity certificate, or written confirmation of personal identification number invalidation and re-issuance;
b) Tampering with or falsifying citizen identity cards, identity cards, identity certificates, written confirmations of personal identification number invalidation and re-issuance;
c) Destroying or intentionally damaging citizen identity cards, identity cards, identity certificates, written confirmations of personal identification number invalidation and re-issuance; 
d) Failing to hand over citizen identity cards or identity cards to the competent authority upon renunciation or deprivation of Vietnamese nationality, or annulment of the decisions on granting Vietnamese nationality; failing to hand over identity certificates when persons of Vietnamese origin whose nationality has not yet been determined are granted Vietnamese nationality, or confirmed to have Vietnamese nationality, or determined to have foreign nationality.
3. A fine of between VND 4,000,000 and VND 8,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Falsifying data or using falsified data to be granted with identity cards, electronic identity cards, identity certificates, written confirmations of personal identification number invalidation and re-issuance;
b) Providing untruthful information and documents to be granted with identity cards, electronic identity cards, identity certificates, written confirmations of personal identification number invalidation and re-issuance. 
4. A fine of between VND 8,000,000 and VND 10,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Using forged citizen identity cards, forged identity cards, forged electronic identity cards, forged identity certificates, forged written confirmations of personal identification number invalidation and re-issuance; using citizen identity cards or identity cards that are no longer valid to commit illegal acts; 
b) Offering or accepting pledges which are citizen identity cards, identity cards, identity certificates, or written confirmations of personal identification number invalidation and re-issuance; 
c) Renting or leasing citizen identity cards, identity cards, identity certificates, or written confirmations of personal identification number invalidation and re-issuance.
5. Additional sanctions:
Confiscation of object evidence of the administrative violations prescribed at Points b and c, Clause 2, Clause 3, and Clause 4 of this Article.
6. Remedial measures:
a) Forcible surrender of the citizen identity card, identity card, identity certificate, or written confirmation of personal identification number invalidation and re-issuance in case of committing the violations prescribed at Point c, Clause 1 and Points a and d, Clause 2 of this Article;
b) Forcible refund of illicit profits earned from the commission of violations prescribed at Points b and c, Clause 4 of this Article.
Article 12. Violations of regulations on management and use of weaponry, explosives, explosive precursors, tactical gear
1. A fine of between VND 2,000,000 and VND 4,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Failing to comply or insufficiently complying with the regulations on periodical inspection of weaponry and tactical gear that have been equipped;
b) Failing to fully declare and register weaponry and tactical gear being equipped or used with competent authorities;
c) Preserving weaponry, military explosives, or tactical gear in contravention of regulations;
d) Failing to make periodical reports on the situation and results of the management and use of weaponry, military explosives, and tactical gear in accordance with regulations.
2. A fine of between VND 4,000,000 and VND 10,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Losing the permit for use of weaponry or tactical gear;
b) Failing to present or hand over the permit, certification, or certificate related to weaponry, explosives, explosive precursors, or tactical gear in accordance with the law regulations;
c) Circulating permits, certifications, and certificates on management and use of weaponry, military explosives, and tactical gear that are no longer valid;
d) Handing over weaponry, military explosives, and tactical gear for management or use by authorities, organizations, or individuals that are ineligible or fail to satisfy conditions in accordance with the law regulations;
dd) Assigning persons who do not meet the conditions prescribed by the law regulations to manage warehouses and storages of weaponry, military explosives, and tactical gear;
e) Failing to arrange warehouses or places to store weaponry, military explosives, and tactical gear as prescribed by the law regulations;
g) Carrying weaponry and tactical gear without carrying usage permits and usage certificates;
h) Illegally buying, selling, exchanging, donating, giving, sending, borrowing, lending, renting, leasing, searching, collecting, or pledging, appropriating scraps and waste products of weaponry, military explosives, and tactical gear;
i) Manufacturing, producing, buying, selling, equipping, exporting, importing, transporting, or repairing weaponry, military explosives, and tactical gear with permits but failing to comply with such permits.
3. A fine of between VND 10,000,000 and VND 20,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Destroying or intentionally damaging weaponry, military explosives, or tactical gear that have been equipped;
b) Appropriating, buying, selling, exchanging, donating, giving, borrowing, lending, renting, leasing, or pledging permits, certifications, and certificates regarding weaponry, military explosives, and tactical gear;
c) Concealing, failing to report, or assisting other persons in the illegal manufacture, production, purchase, sale, export, import, storage, transport, repair, conversion, use, or destruction of weaponry, military explosives, or tactical gear;
d) Transporting or destroying weaponry, military explosives, and tactical gear that fail to ensure safety or affect the environment;
dd) Failing to test, appraise, evaluate, and register weaponry and tactical gear in accordance with the law regulations on product quality control before being allowed to manufacture, trade and use such weaponry and tactical gear in Vietnam;
e) Intentionally providing false information on the management of weaponry, military explosives, and tactical gear; failing to report, concealing, or falsifying reports on the loss thereof, waste, accidents, or incidents regarding weaponry, military explosives, and tactical gear;
g) Losing tactical gear that has been equipped;
h) Transporting weaponry, military explosives, and tactical gear, which have been equipped or are being traded, without permits from competent authorities;
i) Failing to comply with the inspection or obstructing the inspection of weaponry, military explosives, and tactical gear at the request of competent persons;
k) Failing to surrender weaponry, explosives, or tactical gear as prescribed by the law regulations, which is not serious enough for penal liability examination;
l) Selling explosive precursors to a purchaser when such purchaser has not been granted a Certificate of satisfaction of security and public order conditions, Certificate of eligibility for production of industrial explosives, or a permit to trade in explosive precursors, or has not obtained a written approval of a competent State authority.
4. A fine of between VND 20,000,000 and VND 30,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Illegally searching for, collecting weaponry, explosives, tactical gear or sawing, cutting, chiseling, performing other manipulations to illegally dismantle military weaponry;
b) Losing military weaponry or sporting arms that have been equipped;
c) Illegally instructing, training, organizing training on methods of manufacturing, producing, repairing, assembling, using weaponry, explosives, tactical gear or illegally advertising weaponry, explosives, tactical gear in any forms;
d) Using weaponry, explosives, tactical gear in contravention of regulations but not yet causing consequences;
dd) Illegally exchanging, donating, giving, receiving, aiding, sending, borrowing, lending, renting, leasing weaponry, explosives, explosive precursors, tactical gear or pledging weaponry, explosives, explosive precursors, tactical gear;
e) Tampering with or falsifying permits, certifications, certificates regarding weaponry, military explosives, tactical gear.
5. A fine of between VND 30,000,000 and VND 40,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Illegally manufacturing, storing, transporting, using, buying, selling or appropriating sporting arms, rudimentary weaponry, tactical gear, which is not serious enough for penal liability examination, or illegally producing, exporting, importing, repairing, converting sporting arms, rudimentary weaponry, tactical gear;
b) Manufacturing, storing, transporting, using, buying, selling, or appropriating hunting rifles, which is not serious enough for penal liability examination, or producing, exporting, importing, repairing, converting hunting rifles;
c) Illegally manufacturing, producing, buying, selling, exporting, importing, storing, transporting, repairing, converting, using, or appropriating military weaponry or explosives without being held criminally liable;
d) Illegally transporting, carrying weaponry, explosives, explosive precursors, tactical gear into or out of the territory of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam or carrying them into prohibited places, prohibited areas, protected areas, protected targets, and public places without being held criminally liable;
dd) Taking advantage of abusing the management and use of weaponry, explosives, explosive precursors, tactical gear to undermine national security, social order and safety, life, health of humans, assets, legitimate rights and interests of authorities, organizations, individuals;
e) Taking advantage of, abusing the performance of tasks of preventing and combating law violations related to weaponry, explosives, tactical gear to harass, infringe upon the interests of the State, infringe upon legitimate rights and interests or obstruct normal operation of organizations, individuals.
6. The Government’s Decree prescribing sanctions for administrative violations in the field of chemicals and industrial explosives and relevant legal normative documents shall apply for handling of, and imposition of sanctions on, administrative violations of regulations on management and use of industrial explosives and explosive precursors not yet prescribed in this Decree.
7. Additional sanctions:
a) Confiscation of object evidence of the administrative violations prescribed at Points b and h, Clause 2; Points b, dd, k, and l, Clause 3; Points a, c, d, and dd, Clause 4; Points a, b, c, d, and dd, Clause 5 of this Article;
b) Deprivation of the right to use permits, certifications, and certificates of weaponry and tactical gear for a definite period of between 03 and 12 months in case of committing the violations prescribed at Point i, Clause 2; Point d, Clause 3; Point d, Clause 4; Point dd, Clause 5 of this Article.
8. Remedial measures:
a) Forcible implementation of measures to remediate environmental pollution in case of committing the violation prescribed at Point d, Clause 3 of this Article;
b) Forcible refund of illicit profits earned from the commission of violations prescribed at Point h, Clause 2; Points b, dd and l, Clause 3; Points a, c and dd, Clause 4; Points a, b, c, d and dd, Clause 5 of this Article;
c) Forcible surrender of permits, certifications, and certificates regarding weaponry, military explosives, and tactical gear in case of committing the violations prescribed at Point c, Clause 2; Points a, d and g, Clause 3; and Points b and e, Clause 4 of this Article.
Article 13. Violations of regulations on management and use of pyrotechnic articles
1. A fine of between VND 2,000,000 and VND 5,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Failing to make periodical reports on the situation and results of the management and use of pyrotechnic articles in accordance with regulations;
b) Using non-explosive fireworks in contravention of the law regulations.
2. A fine of between VND 5,000,000 and VND 10,000,000 shall be imposed handing over non-explosive fireworks or non-explosive pyrotechnic compositions to authorities, organizations, or individuals that do not satisfy the conditions prescribed by the law regulations.
3. A fine of between VND 10,000,000 and VND 20,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Appropriating, buying, selling, exchanging, donating, giving, borrowing, lending, renting, leasing, or pledging permits related to pyrotechnic articles;
b) Intentionally providing false information in the management and preservation of pyrotechnic articles and pyrotechnic compositions or failing to report, concealing, or falsifying information on the loss, waste, accidents, or incidents regarding pyrotechnic articles and pyrotechnic compositions;
c) Transporting, preserving, or destroying pyrotechnic articles without ensuring safety or thereby affecting the environment;
d) Failing to test, inspect, evaluate, and register pyrotechnic articles in accordance with the law regulations on product and goods quality management before being permitted for production, trading, or use in Vietnam;
dd) Tampering with or falsifying the permits related to pyrotechnic articles.
4. A fine of between VND 20,000,000 and VND 40,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Illegally instructing, training, or organizing training on methods of manufacturing, producing, or using pyrotechnic articles;
b) Taking advantage of or abusing the use of pyrotechnic articles to undermine national security, social order and safety, life, health, assets, legitimate rights and interests of authorities, organizations, and individuals;
c) Illegally bringing non-explosive fireworks or pyrotechnic compositions into and out of the territory of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam or into restricted places and areas, protected areas, and secured premises;
d) Exchanging, giving, donating, sending, borrowing, lending, renting, leasing, pledging explosive fireworks or pyrotechnic compositions for illegal production of pyrotechnic articles;
dd) Illegally using or appropriating firecrackers, explosive fireworks, or pyrotechnic compositions;
e) Handing over explosive fireworks or explosive pyrotechnic compositions to authorities, organizations, or individuals that do not satisfy the conditions prescribed by the law regulations.
5. Below are fines imposable on illegally manufacturing, producing, buying, selling, importing, exporting, storing, or transporting non-explosive fireworks or pyrotechnic compositions:
a) A fine of between VND 2,000,000 and VND 5,000,000, in case of a quantity of less than 05 kg of non-explosive fireworks or less than 0.5 kg of pyrotechnic compositions;
b) A fine of between VND 5,000,000 and VND 10,000,000, in case of a quantity of between 05 kg and less than 10 kg of non-explosive fireworks or between 0.5 kg and less than 01 kg of pyrotechnic compositions;
c) A fine of between VND 10,000,000 and VND 20,000,000, in case of a quantity of between 10 kg and less than 20 kg of non-explosive fireworks or between 01 kg and less than 02 kg of pyrotechnic compositions;
d) A fine of between VND 20,000,000 and VND 30,000,000, in case of a quantity of between 20 kg and less than 40 kg of non-explosive fireworks or between 02 kg and less than 05 kg of pyrotechnic compositions;
dd) A fine of between VND 30,000,000 and VND 35,000,000, in case of a quantity of between 40 kg and less than 50 kg of non-explosive fireworks or between 05 kg and less than 10 kg of pyrotechnic compositions;
e) A fine of between VND 35,000,000 and VND 40,000,000, in case of a quantity of 50 kg of non-explosive fireworks or more, or 10 kg of pyrotechnic compositions or more.
6. The Government’s Decree prescribing sanctions for administrative violations relating to commercial activities, production and trading of counterfeits and contrabands, and consumer protection, and other relevant legal normative documents shall apply for handling of, and imposition of sanctions on, administrative violations related to illegal production, purchase, sale, import, export, storage, and transportation of firecrackers, which is not serious enough for penal liability examination.
7. Additional sanctions:
a) Confiscation of object evidence of the administrative violations prescribed at Point b, Clause 1; Clause 2; Points a and d, Clause 3; Clause 4; Clause 5 of this Article;
b) Deprivation of the right to use the permits related to pyrotechnic articles for a definite period of between 03 and 12 months in case of committing the violations prescribed at Points c and d, Clause 3 of this Article.
8. Remedial measures:
a) Forcible implementation of measures to remediate environmental pollution in case of committing the violation prescribed at Point c, Clause 3 of this Article;
b) Forcible refund of illicit profits earned from the commission of violations prescribed at Point a, Clause 3; Points a, c and d, Clause 4; Clause 5 of this Article;
c) Forcible surrender of the permits related to pyrotechnic articles in case of committing the violation prescribed at Point dd, Clause 3 of this Article.
Article 14. Violations of regulations on safety measures in production, trading, export, import, transportation, use of highly lethal knives
1. A fine of between VND 1,000,000 and VND 2,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Failing to notify the nearest police office of the loss or misplacement of highly lethal knives during the process of production, trading, export, import, or transportation thereof;
b) Carrying highly lethal knives into public places without wrapping or keeping, or preserving strictly and safely;
c) Using highly lethal knives in labor, production, daily life but failing to implement management and preservation measures, allowing other persons to take advantage of them for illegal purposes.
2. A fine of between VND 2,000,000 and VND 4,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Failing to strictly manage, ensure safety, fire prevention and fighting, environmental protection during the process of production of highly lethal knives; failing to tightly wrap, pack or crate highly lethal knife products;
b) Failing to implement safety measures during the process of trading, export, import, transportation of highly lethal knives;
c) Producing, trading, exporting, importing highly lethal knives of unknown origin, without stamping the name of the manufacturer or brand, or symbol on the products;
d) Failing to provide information on the quantity, type of product, brand, and name of the establishment manufacturing highly lethal knives upon request of the competent police office in accordance with the law regulations.
3. Remedial measures:
Forcible implementation of safety measures during the process of production, trading, export, import, transportation of highly lethal knives in case of committing the violations prescribed at Points a and b, Clause 2 of this Article.
Article 15. Violations of regulations on management of investment and business lines subject to security and public order conditions
1. A fine of between VND 2,000,000 and VND 3,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Untimely making quarterly reports with untruthful or insufficient information about the situation and implementation results of security and order regulations as prescribed by the Ministry of Public Security;
b) Incorrectly or incompletely making management books or storing data about business activities against regulations of the Ministry of Public Security;
c) Failing to send a written notification, enclosed with a copy of the Certificate of satisfaction of security and public order conditions, to the commune-level police office of the locality where the establishment is located within 05 days from the date the establishment commences its operation;
d) Failing to send a written notification to the police office that has issued the Certificate of satisfaction of security and public order conditions and the commune-level police office of the locality where the establishment is located within 10 days from the date the establishment suspends its operation;
dd) Failing to send a written notification to the police office that has issued the Certificate of satisfaction of security and public order conditions within 03 working days from the date the loss of such Certificate is acknowledged;
e) Failing to send a written notification, enclosed with relevant documents, to the commune-level police office of the locality where the security guard plan is deployed. In case where the deployment occurs in a province or municipality other than the one in which the security guard service provider is headquartered, within 05 days from the date of deployment;
g) Failing to issue or publicize the process and procedures for receiving seal production dossiers and seal carving prices at seal production establishments;
h) Failing to present the original Certificate of satisfaction of security and public order conditions upon request for inspection of competent authorities or persons, if the establishment has been previously granted the paper version of the Certificate of satisfaction of security and public order conditions.
2. A fine of between VND 3,000,000 and VND 5,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Failing to make quarterly reports on the situation and implementation results of security and order regulations to the police office that has issued the Certificate of satisfaction of security and public order conditions;
b) Failing to make extraordinary reports on security and order-related incidents occurring at the business establishment to the police office that has issued the Certificate of satisfaction of security and public order conditions and the commune-level police office of the locality where the business establishment operates;
c) Failing to make business operation management books suitable to the establishment’s business investment type or business line as prescribed by the law regulations;
d) Failing to develop plans to ensure security and order for jobs and professions which require security and order protection plans as prescribed by the law regulations;
dd) Failing to arrange warehouses to preserve raw materials, goods and business products or having warehouses that fail to meet the requirements as prescribed by the law regulations;
e) Employing employees who do not meet conditions and standards prescribed in the field of State governance of security and public order to work at business establishments subject to security and public order conditions, unless otherwise prescribed at Point t, Clause 3 of this Article;
g) Failing to fully comply with or failing to maintain the compliance with regulations on the responsibility for ensuring security and public order when conducting business in investment and business lines subject to security and public order conditions;
h) Failing to keep copies of the identity documents of pledgors as prescribed by the law regulations;
i) Providing the service of paintball shooting game to customers under 18 years of age;
k) Failing to arrange on-duty medical staff at the location where the service of paintball shooting game is provided in order to handle any possible incident that may occur during the game;
l) Failing to check and store copies of identity documents of customers who come to perform cosmetic surgery in accordance with the law regulations;
m) Failing to send a written notification to the police office that has issued the Certificate of satisfaction of security and public order conditions within 03 working days from the date the business establishment changes its personnel in charge of security and public order;
n) Failing to send a written notification to the competent police office at least 06 days prior to any blasting operations.
3. A fine of between VND 5,000,000 and VND 10,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Failing to fully maintain proper security and order conditions in the course of business activities;
b) Providing untruthful information in documents in order to apply for Certificates of satisfaction of security and public order conditions;
c) Forging dossiers and documents to apply for the Certificates of satisfaction of security and public order conditions;
d) Tampering with or falsifying the Certificates of satisfaction of security and public order conditions or the Certificates of security guard expertise;
dd) Lending, leasing, buying, and selling Certificates of satisfaction of security and public order conditions;
e) Doing business at the locations other than those stated in the Certificates of satisfaction of security and public order conditions;
g) Directly handing over seals to customers without transferring such seals to the competent police offices for registration in accordance with the law regulations;
h) Providing designs of seals of authorities or organizations to unauthorized persons;
i) Accepting pledges which are assets without a pledge contract in accordance with the law regulations, unless otherwise prescribed at Point l of this Clause;
k) Accepting pledges which are assets without keeping or incompletely keeping the original ownership certificates of pledged assets at business establishments during the pledge period, for assets that require ownership certificates in accordance with the law regulations, or failing to keep the pledged assets, unless otherwise agreed in accordance with the law regulations;
l) Accepting pledges which are assets owned by other persons without their valid powers of attorney for the pledgors to pledge their assets, unless otherwise prescribed at Point i of this Clause;
m) Selling or providing emergency vehicle equipment to those who are not permitted to use such equipment or otherwise obtain permits from competent authorities in accordance with the law regulations but failing to use the equipment in conformity with the permits;
n) Producing, importing, buying, and selling emergency vehicle audible and visual warning devices that exceed the sound and lighting levels prescribed by the law regulations;
o) Employing foreigners or overseas Vietnamese people to be in charge of security and order in security guard service providers, or to directly manage business activities, or to work as security guards;
p) Failing to equip or improperly equipping security guards with uniforms and insignias as prescribed by the law regulations;
q) Providing security guard services without signing contracts with the individuals or organizations hiring security guards;
r) Selling or supplying devices which can interfere with or disrupt mobile communications to authorities, organizations, or individuals, which has not been permitted or approved in writing by competent authorities;
s) Insufficiently employing or failing to use security guards from security guard service providers at discos, prize-winning electronic games for foreigners or casinos in accordance with the law regulations;
t) Employing security guards who have not been granted certificates of security guard expertise;
u) Failing to carry out procedures for applying for issuance of a replacement Certificate of satisfaction of security and public order conditions in case of any change in the information stated in the Certificate;
v) Failing to fully implement the process of checking and storing information of guests and persons who visit such guests as prescribed by the law regulations.
4. A fine of between VND 10,000,000 and VND 20,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Conducting business in investment or business lines subject to security and public order conditions when the certificates of satisfaction of security and public order conditions have not been granted or have been revoked or when the right to use the certificates of satisfaction of security and public order conditions is deprived, or the validity of such certificates expires, unless otherwise prescribed at Point dd of this Clause;
b) Being negligent in the compliance with regulations on security and public order conditions for certain conditional investment and business lines, leading to acts that undermine security and public order, law violations, or acts in contravention of social ethics, fine customs, and traditions of Vietnam at the business establishments under direct management, unless otherwise prescribed at Point h, Clause 5, Article 30; Clause 1, Article 35; and Point dd, Clause 3, Article 36 of this Decree;
c) Producing seals of authorities, organizations, or state office-bearers when the seal sample transfer slips are not received from the seal sample registration authorities in accordance with the law regulations;
d) Providing pawn services, or providing collateral or non-collateral loans with the interest rates exceeding those prescribed by the Civil Code, which is not serious enough for penal liability examination;
dd) Failing to register investment and business lines subject to security and public order conditions but providing collateral or non-collateral loans with the interest rates exceeding those prescribed by the Civil Code, which is not serious enough for penal liability examination;
e) Failing to preserve the pledged assets or preserving the pledged assets at the place other than that registered with the competent authorities;
g) Providing security guard services for illegal subjects, premises, or activities;
h) Failing to fully record information of customers in the management books made using the prescribed form and failing to keep copies of identity documents of customers when running casinos prize-winning electronic games for foreigners;
i) Buying, selling, importing military goods and products but failing to keep adequate records and documents as prescribed by the law regulations;
k) Selling or supplying military equipment or military products to subjects that have not been permitted or approved in writing by competent authorities;
l) Failing to have storage warehouses for pledged assets or having storage warehouses for pledged assets not at the address registered with the competent authority;
m) Failing to comply with the inspection or obstructing the inspection of business establishments operating in investment and business lines subject to security and public order conditions upon request of competent authorities or persons.
5. A fine of between VND 20,000,000 and VND 40,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Taking advantage of investment and business lines subject to security and public order conditions to commit acts that undermine security and public order, or in contravention of ethics, fine customs, and traditions of Vietnam;
b) Accepting pledges which are assets obtained from theft, fraud, appropriation, or crimes committed by other persons;
c) Providing security guard services involving the use or threat of force in order to intimidate, obstruct or cause difficulties to the normal operation of authorities, organizations, or individuals, or infringe upon the lawful interests of authorities, organizations or individuals;
d) Using or threatening to use force or taking other measures that are not permitted by the law regulations to collect debts;
dd) Using forged Certificates of satisfaction of security and public order conditions or Certificates of security guard expertise.
6. The Government’s Decree prescribing sanctions for administrative violations of regulations on labor, social insurance, and Vietnamese guest workers under contracts, and other relevant legal normative documents shall apply for handling of, and imposition of sanctions on, administrative violations of regulations on management of investment and business lines subject to security and public order conditions regarding the employment of minors.
7. Additional sanctions:
a) Deprivation of the right to use the permit, practising certificate, or Certificate of satisfaction of security and public order conditions for a definite period of between 03 and 06 months in case of committing the violations prescribed at Points e, h, and q, Clause 3; and Points c and m, Clause 4 of this Article, unless otherwise the law regulations prescribe the revocation of such permit, practising certificate, or Certificate of satisfaction of security and public order conditions;
b) Deprivation of the right to use the permit, practising certificate, or Certificate of satisfaction of security and public order conditions for a definite period of between 06 and 09 months in case of committing the violations prescribed at Points d, e, and g, Clause 4; and Points a, b, c and dd, Clause 5 of this Article, unless otherwise the law regulations prescribe the revocation of such permit, practising certificate, or Certificate of satisfaction of security and public order conditions;
c) Confiscation of object evidence of the administrative violations prescribed at Points b, c, h, m, n and r, Clause 3; Points c and k, Clause 4; and Points b and dd, Clause 5 of this Article;
d) Depending on the nature, severity, and consequences of the violation, the violator, and any mitigating or aggravating circumstances, the imposition of the sanction of expulsion on any foreign national who commits any administrative violation prescribed at Points a, c, and d, Clause 5 of this Article may be considered.
8. Remedial measures:
a) Forcible refund of illicit profits earned from the commission of violations prescribed at Point i, Clause 2; Points dd, i, k, l, m, n and r, Clause 3; Points a, d, dd and k, Clause 4; and Point b, Clause 5 of this Article;
b) Forcible return of Certificates of satisfaction of security and public order conditions, Certificates of security guard expertise in case of committing the violation prescribed at Point d, Clause 3 of this Article.
Article 16. Violations of regulations on management and use of seals
1. A fine of between VND 500,000 and VND 1,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Failing to apply for reissuance of the Certificate of seal sample registration within 02 working days from the date the loss of such Certificate is acknowledged by an authority, organization, or state office-bearer;
b) Failing to carry out the procedures for replacing the Certificate of seal sample registration and returning the former Certificate of seal sample registration to the seal sample registration authority when the Certificate of seal sample registration is damaged;
c) Failing to notify the seal sample to relevant authorities or organizations before using the seal;
d) Failing to issue internal regulations on management and use of seals within the authorities or organizations that own the seals;
dd) Failing to send decisions to the authorities that granted the Certificates of seal sample registration when issuing decisions on separation, merger, consolidation, dissolution, termination of operation, ending of tasks or decisions on organizational change, renaming or decisions on revocation of operation registration certificates, operation permits or decisions on temporary suspension or suspension of operation to recover the seals in accordance with regulations.
2. A fine of between VND 2,000,000 and VND 3,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Arbitrarily taking the seal out of the premise of the authority or organization without permission of the concerned state office-bearer or the head of such authority or organization;
b) Failing to re-register the seal sample in accordance with the law regulations or when there is a change related to the seal sample prescribed in legal normative documents;
c) Disobeying the inspection of seals or failing to present the seals or Certificates of seal sample registration upon request of the seal sample registration authorities;
d) Failing to send a written notification to the office that has issued the Certificate of seal sample registration and the commune-level police office of the locality where the seal is lost after more than 02 working days from the date the loss of such seal is acknowledged by an authority, organization or state office-bearer;
dd) Using seals that are deformed, worn, or damaged.
3. A fine of between VND 3,000,000 and VND 5,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Failing to surrender seals or Certificates of seal sample registration under decisions of the competent authorities or notices of the seal sample registration authorities;
b) Stamping seals on documents that have not been signed by competent persons or unauthorized persons;
c) Borrowing, lending, renting, leasing, pledging, accepting pledges, mortgaging, using seals of other authorities or organizations for operation;
d) Using expired seals;
dd) Intentionally distorting or modifying information on registered seals;
e) Using seals whose samples have not yet been registered;
g) Failing to return the seal and the Certificate of seal sample registration when there is an effective decision of the competent authority on division, separation, merger, consolidation, termination of operation, ending of tasks or having the establishment and operation permit, operation registration certificate, operation permit revoked or being temporarily suspended or suspended from operation, or the lost seal is found after the seal has been invalidated;
h) Tampering with or falsifying the Certificate of seal sample registration.
4. A fine of between VND 5,000,000 and VND 10,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Forging dossiers to make extra seals of authorities, organizations, or state office-bearers;
b) Using forged seals;
c) Appropriating or illegally trading in seals;
d) Illegally destroying seals.
5. Additional sanctions:
a) Confiscation of object evidence of the administrative violations prescribed at Points c and e, Clause 3; Points a and b, Clause 4 of this Article;
b) Depending on the nature, severity, and consequences of the violation, the violator, and any mitigating or aggravating circumstances, the imposition of the sanction of expulsion on any foreign national who commits any administrative violation prescribed in Clause 4 of this Article may be considered.
6. Remedial measures:
a) Forcible handover of the seal and the Certificate of seal sample registration in case of committing the violations prescribed at Points b and dd, Clause 2; Points a, d, dd and g, Clause 3; and Point c, Clause 4 of this Article;
b) Forcible invalidation of documents improperly stamped with the seals in case of committing the violation prescribed at Point b, Clause 3 of this Article;
c) Forcible refund of illicit profits earned from the commission of violations prescribed at Point c, Clause 3 and Point c, Clause 4 of this Article;
d) Forcible handover of the Certificates of seal sample registration in case of committing the violation prescribed at Point h, Clause 3 of this Article.
Article 17. Violations of regulations on execution of criminal judgments and enforcement of administrative measures
1. A warning or a fine of between VND 500,000 and VND 1,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Failing to perform obligations of the persons subject to the administrative measure of correctional education in communes, wards, or special zones; persons who have been granted amnesty; persons who have finished imprisonment sentences as prescribed by the law regulations;
b) Violating regulations on observance of the administrative measure of correctional education in communes, wards, or special zones; sending to reformatories; compulsory correctional education establishments; or compulsory drug rehabilitation establishments.
2. A fine of between VND 1,000,000 and VND 2,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Violating regulations on the observance of preventive and coercive measures: confinement in case of emergency, arrest, custody, temporary detention, bail, ban from leaving the place of residence, bail bond, exit postponement, escort and delivery of prisoners, distraint, account freeze, or committing violations against other preventive or coercive measures as prescribed by the law regulations;
b) Violating the regulations on the observance of custody and temporary detention measures; violating the regulations on the execution of fines and sanctions of assets confiscation or expulsion.
3. A fine of between VND 2,000,000 and VND 3,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) A person entitled to the postponement of imprisonment failing to be present at the summons of the criminal judgment execution authority or the commune-level People’s Committee;
b) A person who is temporarily suspended from serving the imprisonment sentence failing to comply with the delivery of him/her from a prison, detention camp or criminal judgment execution authority to commune-level People’s Committees;
c) A person who is temporarily suspended from serving the imprisonment sentence failing to make reports at the request of the commune-level People’s Committee;
d) A person entitled to a suspended sentence failing to be present at the summons of the judgment enforcement authority or the commune-level People’s Committee;
dd) A person entitled to a suspended sentence failing to commit to serving the sentence;
e) A person serving a suspended sentence failing to be present at a review meeting; failing to make reports on his/her execution of the sentence;
g) A person serving a non-custodial sentence failing to be present at the summons of the judgment enforcement authority or the commune-level People’s Committee;
h) A person serving a non-custodial sentence failing to commit to serving the sentence;
i) A person serving a non-custodial sentence failing to make reports on his/her execution of the sentence;
k) A person serving a non-custodial sentence failing to be present at a review meeting;
l) A person serving a non-custodial sentence failing to fulfill the obligation to pay the withheld income;
m) A person serving a non-custodial sentence failing to perform a number of community services under the decision of the criminal judgment enforcement authority;
n) A person on probation failing to perform his/her obligations as prescribed by the law regulations;
o) A person on probation failing to be present at the request of the criminal judgment execution authority or the commune-level People’s Committee of the place of probation, without plausible reasons;
p) A person on probation failing to commit to serving the sentence;
q) A person on probation failing to present and make reports to the commune-level People’s Committee as prescribed by the law regulations;
r) A person banned from leaving his/her place of residence failing to be present at the request of the commune-level People’s Committee;
s) A person banned from leaving his/her place of residence failing to commit to serving the sentence;
t) A prisoner granted conditional early release failing to present his/herself at the commune-level People’s Committee of his/her place of residence after being conditionally released before the prison term;
u) A prisoner granted conditional early release failing to commit to perform his/her obligations;
v) A prisoner granted conditional early release failing to be present at the request of the criminal judgment execution authority or the commune-level People’s Committee;
x) A prisoner granted conditional early release failing to be present at a review meeting;
y) A prisoner granted conditional early release failing to make reports as prescribed by the law regulations.
4. A fine of between VND 3,000,000 and VND 4,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) A person entitled to the postponement of imprisonment leaving his/her the place of residence without the consent of the commune-level People’s Committee or the commune-level police office;
b) A person entitled to postponement of imprisonment failing to be present at the criminal judgment execution authority after the period of postponement expires, or at the request of a competent authority;
c) A person who is temporarily suspended from serving an imprisonment sentence failing to be present at the place where he/she is serving his/her sentence before the sentence is temporarily suspended, or at the criminal judgment execution authority of his/her place of residence after the period of suspension from serving the imprisonment sentence expires, or at the request of a competent authority;
d) A person sentenced to imprisonment but released on bail failing to be present at the judgment enforcement authority within the prescribed time limit after there is decision on enforcement of his/her sentence;
dd) A person serving a suspended sentence leaving his/her place of residence without asking for permission or without the consent of the commune-level People’s Committee, or being absent from his/her place of residence beyond the permitted time limit;
e) A person serving a suspended sentence changing his/her place of residence without the consent of the competent authorities;
g) A person on probation leaving his/her place of probation without the consent of the competent person or leaving the place of probation beyond the permitted time limit without plausible reasons;
h) A prisoner granted conditional early release failing to obey the management of the commune-level People’s Committee;
i) A prisoner granted conditional early release leaving his/her place of residence without asking for permission or without the consent of the commune-level People’s Committee; being absent from the place of residence beyond the permitted time limit;
k) A prisoner granted conditional early release changing his/her place of residence without the consent of the competent authorities;
l) A person subject to prohibition of residence residing in places where they have been prohibited from residing, without permission or beyond the permitted time limit;
m) A person serving a non-custodial sentence leaving his/her place of residence without asking for permission or without the consent of the commune-level People’s Committee or being absent from the place of residence beyond the permitted time limit;
n) A person serving a non-custodial sentence changing his/her place of residence without the consent of the competent authorities;
o) A person deprived of some civil rights exercising the deprived rights;
p) A person prohibited from holding some certain positions, practicing certain professions, or doing certain jobs failing to perform his/her obligations as prescribed by the law regulations;
q) A prisoner granted conditional early release failing to perform his/her obligations during the parole period.
Article 18. Violations of regulations on causing damage to assets of other organizations and individuals
1. A fine of between VND 2,000,000 and VND 3,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Stealing assets, which is not serious enough for penal liability examination, or trespassing residential areas, warehouses, or other places under the management of other persons for the purpose of stealing or appropriating assets;
b) Publicly appropriating assets, which is not serious enough for penal liability examination;
c) Using fraudulent tricks or fleeing to appropriate assets or intentionally failing to return assets borrowed or rented from other persons or received under contracts with other persons at the time such assets must be returned, even though it is possible to return the assets, which is not serious enough for penal liability examination;
d) Failing to return assets borrowed or rented from other persons or received under contracts with other persons, but using such assets for illegal purposes leading to the impossibility to return the assets;
dd) Being negligent, thereby causing damage to assets of the State, authorities, organizations, and enterprises, which is not serious enough for penal liability examination;
e) Organizing, hiring, assisting, instigating, enticing, seducing, inciting other persons to steal or appropriate assets of other persons, which is not serious enough for penal liability examination;
g) Storing, hiding on one’s person, in objects or means of transport tools and devices for the purpose of stealing or appropriating assets.
2. A fine of between VND 3,000,000 and VND 5,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Destroying or intentionally damaging assets of other individuals or organizations, or assets co-owned by oneself with other individuals or organizations, which is not serious enough for penal liability examination, unless otherwise prescribed at Point a, Clause 3, Article 26; Point b, Clause 1, Article 44; Point b, Clause 2, Article 46 of this Decree;
b) Using tricks or creating circumstances to force other persons to give money or assets in contravention of the law regulations;
c) Swindling to appropriate assets, which is not serious enough for penal liability examination, or cheating, swindling in brokering, guiding, introducing services of buying, selling houses, land or other assets;
d) Buying, selling, storing, or using assets of other persons knowing that such assets are illegally obtained;
dd) Illegally keeping assets of other persons, which is not serious enough for penal liability examination, or illegally using, buying, selling, mortgaging, pledging assets of other persons;
e) Appropriating assets without being held criminally liable.
3. Additional sanctions:
a) Confiscation of object evidence of the administrative violations prescribed at Points a, c and g, Clause 1; Points a, b and c, Clause 2 of this Article;
b) Depending on the nature, severity, and consequences of the violation, the violator, and any mitigating or aggravating circumstances, the imposition of the sanction of expulsion on any foreign national who commits any administrative violation prescribed in Clause 2 of this Article may be considered.
4. Remedial measures:
a) Forcible refund of illicit profits earned from the commission of violations prescribed at Points c, d and dd, Clause 2 of this Article;
b) Forcible return of illegally seized assets or Forcible return of an amount equal to the value of the illegally seized assets which have been consumed, dispersed, or destroyed in contravention of the law regulations to the lawful owners in case of committing the violations prescribed at Points a, b and c, Clause 1; Points b, dd and e, Clause 2 of this Article;
c) Forcible restoration of the original condition in case of committing the violation prescribed at Point a, Clause 2 of this Article, unless otherwise the original condition of the assets cannot be restored.
Article 19. Violations of regulations on tontine
1. A fine of between VND 2,000,000 and VND 5,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Failing to notify the members of the change of the organizer’s place of residence;
b) Failing to fully notify about the number of tontines, drawing slots, opening time of meetings, members of each tontine of which he/she is the organizer to those who want to participate in such tontine;
c) Failing to draw up a written agreement on the tontine or drawing up a written record without the principal details as prescribed by the law regulations;
d) Failing to make tontine registries;
dd) Failing to pay the money to the member who claim the money withdrawal at each meeting;
e) Failing to allow members to see or copy the registry and failing to provide information related to the tontine upon request;
g) Failing to give the receipts to members when contributing money to the tontine, receiving money at each meeting, receiving, or paying interests, or performing other related transactions.
2. A fine of between VND 5,000,000 and VND 10,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Failing to notify in writing the People’s Committee of the commune-level locality where he/she resides of his/her tontine group in which each member contributes an amount of VND 100,000,000 or more at each meeting;
b) Failing to notify in writing the commune-level People’s Committee in his/her place of residence of the organization of two tontines or more.
3. A fine of between VND 10,000,000 and VND 20,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Abusing the organization of tontines to committing usury with the interest rates exceeding those prescribed by the Civil Code;
b) Organizing tontines to illegally raise funds.
4. Remedial measures:
Forcible refund of illicit profits earned from the commission of the violation prescribed in Clause 3 of this Article.
Article 20. Violations of regulations on protection of public works, security and order works
1. A fine of between VND 500,000 and VND 1,000,000 shall be imposed on arbitrarily moving signs, signposts, and signboards of authorities or organizations.
2. A fine of between VND 1,000,000 and VND 2,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Arbitrarily moving or dismantling telephone and telegraph poles, light poles, fences of State authorities or other public works;
b) Dismantling, destroying or otherwise damaging signs, signposts, and signboards of authorities or organizations;
c) Destroying or damaging assets and objects in secured premises or guard posts; climbing or otherwise causing impact on the gates, doors, fences of secured premises or guard posts without permission.
3. Additional sanctions:
a) Confiscation of object evidence of the administrative violations prescribed in Clauses 1 and 2 of this Article;
b) Depending on the nature, severity, and consequences of the violation, the violator, and any mitigating or aggravating circumstances, the imposition of the sanction of expulsion on any foreign national who commits any administrative violation prescribed in Clause 2 of this Article may be considered.
4. Remedial measures:
Forcible restoration of the original condition in case of committing the violations prescribed in Clauses 1 and 2 of this Article.
Article 21. Violations of regulations on exit, entry, transit, residence, and travel
1. A warning or a fine of between VND 300,000 and VND 500,000 shall be imposed on foreigners traveling in the territory of Vietnam without carrying passports, travel documents, documents valid for international travel, documents issued to foreigners for entry into, exit from, or residence in Vietnam, or APEC Business Travel Cards (ABTC). 
2. A fine of between VND 500,000 and VND 2,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Failing to notify the competent authority in accordance with the law regulations of the loss of passports, travel documents, documents valid for international travel, documents issued to foreigners for entry into, exit from, or residence in Vietnam, AB stamps, ABTCs, or other immigration documents prescribed by international treaties to which the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is a member state that are still valid in accordance with the law regulations; 
b) Making false statements for issuance, renewal, or reinstatement, or reporting the loss, of passports or travel documents; making false statements to be issued with documents valid for international travel, documents issued to foreigners for entry into, exit from, or residence in Vietnam, AB stamps, other immigration documents prescribed by international treaties to which the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is a member state, or ABTCs;
c) A foreigner entering areas which requires permits as prescribed by the State without such permits, or traveling beyond the permitted scope and time limit;
d) Failing to present a passport, travel document, document valid for international travel, document issued to foreigners for entry into, exit from, or residence in Vietnam, an AB stamp, or other immigration document prescribed by international treaties to which the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is a member state, or an ABTC upon request by a competent Vietnamese authority or official; failing to comply with requests by a competent Vietnamese authority or official regarding the search of persons or check of means of transport, objects, or places concealing object evidence of any administrative violation;
dd) A foreigner using a temporary resident certificate, stay extension, or temporary resident card, or failing to apply for issuance of a replacement permanent resident card in Vietnam for less than 16 days after the expiry date thereof without the permission of the competent authorities;
e) Vietnamese citizens using expired immigration documents or failing to have immigration documents to enter Vietnam;
g) Appropriating, illegally keeping passports, travel documents, documents valid for international travel, documents issued to foreigners for entry into, exit from, or residence in Vietnam, AB stamps, other immigration documents prescribed by international treaties to which the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is a member state, or ABTCs of other persons.
3. A fine of between VND 3,000,000 and VND 5,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Destroying, tampering with or falsifying the contents or forms of passports, travel documents, documents valid for international travel, documents issued to foreigners for entry into, exit from, or residence in Vietnam, AB stamps, other immigration documents prescribed by international treaties to which the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is a member state, or ABTCs;
b) Giving, donating, renting, leasing, pledging, or accepting as pledge passports, travel documents, documents valid for international travel, documents issued to foreigners for entry into, exit from, or residence in Vietnam, AB stamps, other immigration documents prescribed by international treaties to which the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is a member state, or ABTCs;
c) Allowing other persons to use passports, travel documents, documents valid for international travel, documents issued to foreigners for entry into, exit from, or residence in Vietnam, AB stamps, other immigration documents prescribed by international treaties to which the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is a member state, or ABTCs to commit illegal acts;
d) Using passports, travel documents, documents valid for international travel, documents issued to foreigners for entry into, exit from, or residence in Vietnam, AB stamps, other immigration documents prescribed by international treaties to which the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is a member state, or ABTCs of other persons for entry, exit, transit, residence or to commit other law violations;
dd) A foreigner who has been issued with a permanent resident card changing his/her address and failing to declare it in order to apply for re-issuance of the card; a foreigner who enters a border-gate economic zone or coastal economic zone under the visa exemption traveling to other places in Vietnam without a Vietnamese visa as prescribed by the law regulations;
e) Accommodation establishments failing to declare temporary residence in accordance with the law regulations for between 01 and 03 foreigners or creating accounts with false information to declare temporary residence for foreigners on the electronic environment; foreigners failing to present passports or documents valid for international travel, documents related to residence in Vietnam to accommodation establishments to declare temporary residence in accordance with the law regulations.
4. A fine of between VND 5,000,000 and VND 10,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Crossing national borders without undergoing exit and entry procedures as prescribed by the law regulations;
b) A foreigner using a temporary resident certificate, stay extension, or temporary resident card, or failing to apply for issuance of a replacement permanent resident card in Vietnam for from 16 days to less than 30 days after the expiry date thereof without the permission of the competent authorities.
5. A fine of between VND 10,000,000 and VND 15,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Using forged passports, forged travel documents, forged documents valid for international travel, forged documents issued to foreigners for entry into, exit from, or residence in Vietnam, forged AB stamps, forged other immigration documents prescribed by international treaties to which the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is a member state, forged exit or entry verification, forged temporary residence certification, or forged ABTCs;
b) A foreigner using a temporary resident certificate, stay extension, or temporary resident card, or failing to apply for issuance of a replacement permanent resident card in Vietnam for from 30 days to less than 60 days after the expiry date thereof without the permission of the competent authorities;
c) Failing to notify the stay of between 04 and 08 foreign guests by accommodation establishments.
6. A fine of between VND 15,000,000 and VND 20,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) A foreigner entering into, doing jobs, or engaging in other activities in Vietnam without permission of a competent Vietnamese authority;
b) A foreigner using a temporary resident certificate, stay extension, or temporary resident card, or failing to apply for issuance of a replacement permanent resident card in Vietnam for from 60 days to less than 90 days after the expiry date thereof without the permission of the competent authorities;
c) Buying and selling passports, travel documents, documents valid for international travel, documents issued to foreigners for entry into, exit from, or residence in Vietnam, AB stamps, other immigration documents prescribed by international treaties to which the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is a member state, or ABTCs;
d) Vietnamese citizens using forged foreign visas or forged documents confirming or proving the destination country permits the entry;
dd) Failing to notify the stay of 09 foreign guests or more by accommodation establishments.
7. A fine of between VND 20,000,000 and VND 25,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Carrying out procedures to invite or guarantee foreigners to enter into, exit from, or reside in Vietnam but failing to comply with the responsibilities as prescribed by the law regulations or making false statements when carrying out such procedures;
b) A foreigner entering Vietnam and operating not for the purpose or not within the program for which he/she has applied for a visa, temporary resident card, or stay extension;
c) Falsifying dossiers or documents to be issued with passports, travel documents, documents valid for international travel, documents issued to foreigners for entry into, exit from, or residence in Vietnam, AB stamps, other immigration documents prescribed by international treaties to which the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is a member state, or ABTCs;
d) A foreigner using a temporary resident certificate, stay extension, or temporary resident card, or failing to apply for issuance of a replacement permanent resident card in Vietnam for from 90 days to less than 180 days after the expiry date thereof without the permission of the competent authorities;
dd) Employing foreign workers, organizing tours for foreigners or providing temporary residence for foreigners when such foreigners reside illegally in Vietnam, or failing to notify the competent authority in accordance with regulations upon detecting signs of violations of the law regulations on foreigners’ entry into, exit from, transit through, and residence in Vietnam.
8. A fine of between VND 25,000,000 and VND 30,000,000 shall be imposed on the act of a foreigner using a temporary resident certificate, stay extension, or temporary resident card, or failing to apply for issuance of a replacement permanent resident card in Vietnam for from 180 days to less than 01 year after the expiry date thereof without the permission of the competent authorities.
9. A fine of between VND 30,000,000 and VND 40,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Entering or staying at an embassy, consulate, diplomatic mission, consular office or headquarters of an international authority or organization located in Vietnam without permission of such authority or organization;
b) A foreigner residing in areas where foreigners are prohibited from residing;
c) A vehicle owner or vehicle manager or vehicle operator transporting persons across national borders without carrying out entry procedures in accordance with regulations;
d) Organizing or brokering for other persons to exit, enter or stay in Vietnam illegally, which is not serious enough for penal liability examination; organizing, brokering, assisting, instigating, harboring, concealing, facilitating other persons to stay abroad or cross national borders illegally, which is not serious enough for penal liability examination; assisting, instigating, harboring, concealing, facilitating other persons to exit, enter, stay in Vietnam illegally;
dd) A foreigner failing to comply with the decision on expulsion or Forcible exit, or the exit request of a functional authority and continuing to reside in Vietnam;
e) A foreigner using a temporary resident certificate, stay extension, or temporary resident card, or failing to apply for issuance of a replacement permanent resident card in Vietnam for 01 year or more after the expiry date thereof without the permission of the competent authorities;
g) A foreigner crossing national borders without carrying out entry procedures in accordance with regulations then staying in Vietnam but not being issued with any document valid for residence in Vietnam in accordance with regulations.
10. The Government’s Decree prescribing sanctions for administrative violations of regulations on management and protection of national borders and relevant legal normative documents shall apply for handling of, and imposition of sanctions on, administrative violations related to border inhabitants crossing border areas.
11. Additional sanctions:
a) Confiscation of object evidence of the administrative violations prescribed at Point b, Clause 2; Points a, d, c, and d, Clause 3; Point a, Clause 5; Points a, c, and d, Clause 6; Points b and c, Clause 7; Point c, Clause 9 of this Article;
b) Depending on the nature, severity, and consequences of the violation, the violator, and any mitigating or aggravating circumstances, the imposition of the sanction of expulsion on any foreign national who commits any administrative violation prescribed in Clauses 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 of this Article may be considered.
12. Remedial measures:
Forcible refund of illicit profits earned from the commission of violations prescribed at Point b, Clause 3; Points a and c, Clause 6; Points c and d, Clause 9 of this Article.
Article 22. Violations of regulations on protection of State secrets
1. A fine of between VND 1,000,000 and VND 3,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Failing to promulgate regulations and intramural rules on protection of State secrets in authorities, organizations, and localities in accordance with the law regulations;
b) Copying, photographing, storing, transporting, delivering, or receiving documents and objects containing State secrets against the law regulations;
c) Failing to recover documents and objects containing State secrets as prescribed by the law regulations;
d) Bringing documents and objects containing State secrets out of the place of storage for work without the permission of a competent person;
dd) Failing to hand over documents or objects containing State secrets upon resignation, job transfer, retirement, or not being assigned to continue managing State secrets;
e) Using State secrets for improper purposes;
g) Determining documents that do not contain State confidential information as State secrets, affixing a seal indicating confidentiality on documents that do not contain State confidential information against the law regulations;
h) Improperly determining the confidentiality against the law regulations;
i) Failing to determine the confidentiality or affix a seal indicating confidentiality as prescribed by the law regulations.
2. A fine of between VND 3,000,000 and VND 5,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Collecting State secrets against the law regulations;
b) Failing to take measures to prevent and remedy consequences when the disclosure or loss of State secrets occurs;
c) Failing to notify competent authorities or persons when the disclosure or loss of State secrets occurs;
d) Failing to remove State secrets when changing the purpose of using computers and other equipment that have been used for drafting, storing, and exchanging State secrets;
dd) Destroying documents and objects containing State secrets against the law regulations.
3. A fine of between VND 5,000,000 and VND 10,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Drafting and storing documents containing State confidential information on computers or other devices that have been connected before or are being connected to the Internet, computer networks or telecommunications networks against the law regulations;
b) Using equipment capable of receiving, transmitting signals, recording sound, recording video, or other forms in conferences, seminars, or meetings with involving State secrets without permission of competent persons;
c) Falsifying or damaging documents or objects containing State secrets;
d) Providing or transferring State secrets against the law regulations;
dd) Entering a place for storing or preserving State secrets or filming, taking pictures, drawing diagrams of the location of storing or preserving State secrets without permission of a competent person.
4. A fine of between VND 20,000,000 and VND 30,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Posting or spreading State secrets on the mass media, the Internet, computer networks and telecommunications networks against the law regulations;
b) Transmitting State secrets on media or telecommunications against the law regulations.
5. Additional sanctions
Confiscation of object evidence of the administrative violations prescribed at Points b and dd, Clause 3 of this Article.
6. Remedial measures:
a) Forcible return of documents or objects containing State secrets in case of committing the violations prescribed at Points b, d, dd and e, Clause 1; Point a, Clause 2; and Point d, Clause 3 of this Article;
b) Forcible recovery of documents or objects containing State secrets in case of committing the violation prescribed at Point c, Clause 1 of this Article;
c) Forcible restoration of the original condition in case of committing the violations prescribed at Point a, Clause 3, and Clause 4 of this Article;
d) Forcible restoration of the original condition in case of committing the violation prescribed at Point c, Clause 3 of this Article.
Article 23. Violations of regulations on management and use of uniforms, insignias, badges, identification numbers, People’s Public Security officer identification cards or other documents which are solely used by the People’s Public Security Forces
1. A fine of between VND 500,000 and VND 1,500,000 shall be imposed on illegally possessing or using uniforms, insignias, badges, identification numbers, People’s Public Security officer identification cards or other documents which are solely used by the People’s Public Security Forces.
2. A fine of between VND 5,000,000 and VND 10,000,000 shall be imposed on illegally buying, selling, or exchanging uniforms, insignias, badges, identification numbers, People’s Public Security officer identification cards or other documents which are solely used by the People’s Public Security Forces, unless otherwise prescribed at Point k, Clause 4, Article 15 of this Decree.
3. A fine of between VND 10,000,000 and VND 30,000,000 shall be imposed on illegally manufacturing or forging uniforms, insignias, badges, identification numbers; tampering with or falsifying People’s Public Security officer identification cards or other documents which are solely used by the People’s Public Security Forces.
4. Additional sanctions:
a) Confiscation of object evidence of the administrative violations prescribed in Clauses 1, 2 and 3 of this Article;
b) Depending on the nature, severity, and consequences of the violation, the violator, and any mitigating or aggravating circumstances, the imposition of the sanction of expulsion on any foreign national who commits any administrative violation prescribed in Clauses 2 and 3 of this Article may be considered.
5. Remedial measures:
Forcible refund of illicit profits earned from the commission of violations prescribed in Clauses 2 and 3 of this Article.
Article 24. Violations of regulations on management, use of uniforms, badges, insignias, signboards, certificates of the force participating in the protection of security and order at the grassroots level
1. A fine of between VND 500,000 and VND 1,000,000 shall be imposed on illegally storing or using, or appropriating uniforms, badges, insignias, signboards, certificates of the force participating in the protection of security and order at the grassroots level.
2. A fine of between VND 3,000,000 and VND 5,000,000 shall be imposed on the act of illegally buying, selling, pledging uniforms, badges, insignias, signboards, certificates of the force participating in the protection of security and order at the grassroots level.
3. A fine of between VND 5,000,000 and VND 10,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Illegally producing or forging uniforms, badges, insignias, signboards of the force participating in the protection of security and order at the grassroots level;
b) Tampering with or falsifying certificates of the force participating in the protection of security and order at the grassroots level.
4. Additional sanctions:
Confiscation of object evidence of the administrative violations prescribed in Clauses 1 and 2, Point a, Clause 3 of this Article.
5. Remedial measures:
a) Forcible refund of illicit profits earned from the commission of violations prescribed in Clause 2, Point a, Clause 3 of this Article;
b) Forcible surrender of the certificates of the force participating in the protection of security and order at the grassroots level in case of committing the violation prescribed at Point b, Clause 3 of this Article.
Article 25. Violations of regulations on organization and operation of the force participating in the protection of security and order at the grassroots level
1. A fine of between VND 1,000,000 and VND 2,000,000 shall be imposed on impersonating the force participating in the protection of security and order at the grassroots level.
2. A fine of between VND 3,000,000 and VND 5,000,000 shall be imposed on offending, threatening, obstructing, resisting the force participating in the protection of security and order at the grassroots level while they are on duty.
3. A fine of between VND 10,000,000 and VND 15,000,000 shall be imposed on employing the force participating in the protection of security and order at the grassroots level in contravention of the Law on the Force Participating in the Protection of Security and Order at the Grassroots Level or make them to commit law violations.
4. Additional sanctions:
Confiscation of object evidence of the administrative violation prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article.
Article 26. Obstructing, resisting inspection, examination, control of official-duty performers; giving, brokering, or receiving bribes
1. A fine of between VND 1,000,000 and VND 4,000,000 shall be imposed on brokering or joining hands with violators to evade the inspection, examination and control of official-duty performers.
2. A fine of between VND 4,000,000 and VND 6,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Obstructing or failing to comply with the request of inspection, examination, control or other duties of official-duty performers as prescribed by the law regulations;
b) Having words or actions threatening, abusing or insulting the honor and dignity of official-duty performers;
c) Organizing, instigating, assisting, enticing or inciting other persons to not comply with the inspection, examination and control of official-duty performers.
3. A fine of between VND 6,000,000 and VND 8,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Causing damage to the assets and means of state authorities or official-duty performers;
b) Giving, brokering, or receiving bribes, which is not serious enough for penal liability examination.
4. Remedial measures:
Forcible public apology at private home, workplace, other locations or on mass media in case of committing the violations prescribed at Point b, Clause 2 of this Article; unless otherwise the victim submits a request for non-application thereof.
Article 27. Violations of regulations on development, management, use of the National Population Database, Residence Database, Identity Database, electronic identification and authentication system
1. A fine of between VND 3,000,000 and VND 5,000,000 shall be imposed on the act of intentionally failing to provide, providing incompletely or untruthfully, or falsifying information or documents serving the collection, updating, adjustment of information in the National Population Database, Residence Database, Identity Database, electronic identification and authentication system.
2. A fine of between VND 5,000,000 and VND 10,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Falsifying data and citizen information in the National Population Database, Residence Database, Identity Database, electronic identification and authentication system;
b) Extracting or using data and citizen information in the National Population Database, Residence Database, Identity Database, electronic identification and authentication system in contravention of the law regulations;
c) Obstructing or preventing and disrupting the process of transmitting, sending, receiving data of the National Population Database, Residence Database, Identity Database, electronic identification and authentication system.
3. A fine of between VND 10,000,000 and VND 20,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Illegally providing or providing ultra vires citizen information in the National Population Database, Residence Database, Identity Database, electronic identification and authentication system;
b) Intentionally disclosing confidential citizen information in the National Population Database, Residence Database, Identity Database, electronic identification and authentication system.
4. A fine of between VND 30,000,000 and VND 40,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Illegally accessing, altering, deleting, destroying, or disseminating, or otherwise affecting the information in the National Database on Population, the Residence Database, the Identity Database, or the electronic identification and authentication system, unless otherwise prescribed at Points d and dd of this Clause;
b) Destroying technical infrastructure, transmission lines and equipment serving the normal operation of the authority in charge of managing the National Database on Population, the Residence Database, the Identity Database, or the electronic identification and authentication system;
c) Producing, putting into use tools, devices, software, or committing other acts obstructing or disrupting the operation of the information infrastructure of the National Population Database, Residence Database, Identity Database, electronic identification and authentication system, unless otherwise prescribed at Point c, Clause 2 of this Article;
d) Extracting, sharing, buying, selling, exchanging, appropriating, illegally using information, data in the National Population Database, Residence Database, Identity Database, electronic identification and authentication system, unless otherwise prescribed at Point dd of this Clause;
dd) Illegally using personal identification information of other persons to commit law violations.
5. Additional sanctions:
Confiscation of object evidence of the administrative violations prescribed in Clauses 3 and 4 of this Article.
6. Remedial measures:
a) Forcible refund of illicit profits earned from the commission of violations prescribed in Clauses 2, 3 and 4 of this Article;
b) Forcible restoration of the original condition in case of committing the violation prescribed at Point b, Clause 4 of this Article.
Article 28. Violations of regulations on issuance of electronic identification accounts; use of the national identification application; management and use of electronic authentication services from the electronic identification and authentication system
1. A fine of between VND 500,000 and VND 1,000,000 shall be imposed on failing to comply with the law regulations on issuance of electronic identification accounts for individuals.
2. A fine of between VND 3,000,000 and VND 4,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Intentionally failing to provide information and documents, providing incomplete information, documents for issuance of electronic identification accounts; providing untruthful information and documents to be issued with electronic identification accounts;
b) Using forged individual electronic identification accounts;
c) Buying, selling, renting, leasing individual electronic identification accounts;
d) Offering or accepting pledges or mortgages which are individual electronic identification accounts;
dd) Forging individual electronic identification accounts.
3. A fine of between VND 4,000,000 and VND 8,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Illegally using or appropriating individual electronic identification accounts;
b) Borrowing electronic identification accounts to commit illegal acts; lending electronic identification accounts for other persons to commit illegal acts;
c) Failing to comply with the law regulations on issuance of electronic identification accounts for organizations;
d) Failing to comply with the law regulations on use of electronic authentication services.
4. A fine of between VND 8,000,000 and VND 10,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Forging organizational electronic identification accounts;
b) Using forged organizational electronic identification accounts;
c) Illegally using or appropriating organizational electronic identification accounts;
d) Buying, selling, renting, leasing organizational electronic identification accounts;
dd) Offering or accepting pledges or mortgages which are organizational electronic identification accounts.
5. A fine of between VND 10,000,000 and VND 15,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Using electronic identification accounts for activities and transactions in contravention of the law regulations; thereby undermining security, defense, national interests, public interests, legitimate rights and interests of organizations, individuals;
b) Illegally interfering with the use of the national identification application of individuals or organizations;
c) Obstructing the implementation of electronic authentication methods in executing transactions through the electronic identification and authentication system;
d) Providing or sharing electronic authentication results to organizations or individuals as authentication factors in other transactions in contravention of the law regulations;
dd) Using electronic authentication services but failing to comply with technical regulations on electronic identification and authentication, management, security of electronic identification account information, safe use of electronic identification accounts.
6. A fine of between VND 15,000,000 and VND 20,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Failing to apply for the issuance, re-issuance, or change of the written confirmation of eligibility for provision of e-authentication services in accordance with the law regulations;
b) Failing to list the portfolio of electronic authentication products and services provided by oneself on the electronic identification website after the portfolio and electronic authentication services and products are approved by competent authorities;
c) Failing to send a written notification to the police office that has issued the written confirmation of eligibility for provision of e-authentication services within 03 working days from the date the loss of such written confirmation is acknowledged;
d) Failing to present the written confirmation of eligibility for provision of e-authentication services upon request for inspection of competent authorities or persons.
7. A fine of between VND 20,000,000 and VND 30,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Failing to fully perform responsibilities in implementing regulations on state governance of commercial provision of electronic authentication services;
b) Failing to properly and fully maintain the conditions for providing electronic authentication services throughout operation;
c) Entrusting other organizations to perform certain activities including: consulting, introducing, answering about electronic authentication services; searching for partners, negotiating and agreeing on activities, services, utilities related to provision of electronic authentication services; supporting and taking care of customers using electronic authentication services, and other trade promotion activities related to electronic authentication services in contravention of the law regulations;
d) Falsifying dossiers of request for issuance of written confirmations of eligibility for provision of e-authentication services;
dd) Tampering with or falsifying the written confirmation of eligibility for provision of e-authentication services;
e) Borrowing, lending, renting, leasing, buying, selling, pledging, mortgaging, accepting mortgages, or accepting pledges of the written confirmations of eligibility for provision of e-authentication services.
8. A fine of between VND 30,000,000 and VND 40,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Providing electronic authentication services, thereby undermining security, national defense, national interests, public interests, legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals;
b) Creating fake national identification applications; coercing or deceiving individuals or organizations to use fake national identification applications;
c) Using a forged written confirmation of eligibility for provision of e-authentication services;
d) Conducting business in electronic authentication services without being issued with a written confirmation of eligibility for provision of e-authentication services or when such written confirmation has been revoked;
dd) Consulting, introducing, answering about electronic authentication services without being entrusted; searching for partners, negotiating and agreeing on activities, services, utilities related to provision of electronic authentication services without being entrusted; supporting or taking care of customers using electronic authentication services, or other trade promotion activities related to electronic authentication services, without being entrusted.
9. Additional sanctions:
Confiscation of object evidence of the administrative violations prescribed at Point d, Clause 7, and Points b and c, Clause 8 of this Article.
10. Remedial measures:
a) Forcible refund of illicit profits earned from the commission of violations prescribed at Points d and dd, Clause 4, Point b, Clause 5, Points c and e, Clause 7, Points a and d, Clause 8 of this Article;
b) Forcible surrender of the written confirmation of eligibility for provision of e-authentication services in case of committing the violation prescribed at Point dd, Clause 7 of this Article.
Article 29. Violating regulations on use and extraction of judicial record database; request for issuance of judicial record cards; use of judicial record cards
1. A fine of between VND 3,000,000 and VND 5,000,000 shall be imposed on making false statements in making the declaration requesting the issuance of judicial record cards.
2. A fine of between VND 5,000,000 and VND 7,000,000 shall be imposed on tampering with or falsifying judicial record cards in any forms.
3. A fine of between VND 7,000,000 and VND 10,000,000 shall be imposed on one of the following violations:
a) Using judicial record cards of other persons in contravention of the law regulations, thereby invading private life of individuals;
b) Using documents of other persons to request issuance of judicial record cards in contravention of the law regulations;
c) Illegally extracting, using, falsifying, or destroying paper judicial records;
d) Illegally accessing, stealing, or sabotaging electronic judicial records;
dd) Disseminating malicious computer programs harmful to computer networks or electronic judicial record information systems.
4. Additional sanctions:
a) Confiscation of object evidence of the administrative violations prescribed at Points d and dd, Clause 3 of this Article;
b) Confiscation of object evidence, which are documents tampered with or altered to distort the information contained therein, of the administrative violation prescribed in Clause 2 of this Article.
5. Remedial measures:
a) Forcible return of original papers, documents that have been tampered with or falsified to the competent authority or person that issued them in case of committing the violations prescribed in Clause 2 of this Article, unless otherwise the originals have been confiscated as prescribed at Point b, Clause 4 of this Article;
b) Request for consideration and handling of the documents by competent authorities, organizations, or persons that have issued them on account of the commission of violations prescribed in Clause 1 and Point b, Clause 3 of this Article.

Section 2
ADMINISTRATIVE VIOLATIONS RELATING TO SOCIAL VICES PREVENTION AND COMBAT

Article 30. Violation of the regulations on prevention, combat and control of narcotics
1. A warning or a fine of between VND 1,000,000 and VND 2,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Illegally using narcotics without being held criminally liable;
b) Discriminating against illegal users of narcotics, persons undergoing drug rehabilitation, persons in post-rehabilitation.
2. A fine of between VND 2,000,000 and VND 5,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Illegally storing, transporting or appropriating narcotics, which is not serious enough for penal liability examination;
b) Appropriating precursors used for illegal production of narcotics, which is not serious enough for penal liability examination;
c) Producing, storing, transporting, buying, selling devices and tools used for the illegal production or use of narcotics, which is not serious enough for penal liability examination.
3. A fine of between VND 5,000,000 and VND 10,000,000 shall be imposed on cultivating plants containing narcotics or instructing on cultivation of plants containing narcotics.
4. A fine of between VND 10,000,000 and VND 20,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Brokering, assisting or other acts to help other persons illegally use narcotics;
b) Resisting or obstructing the testing of narcotics in the body, determination of drug addiction status, management of illegal users of narcotics or persons undergoing drug rehabilitation, and post-rehabilitation management.
5. A fine of between VND 20,000,000 and VND 40,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Abusing one’s position, power, or profession to commit violations of the law regulations on drug prevention and control;
b) Violating regulations on export, import, temporary import, re-export, transit of narcotics, precursors, addictive medicinal products, psychotropic medicinal products, which is not serious enough for penal liability examination; violating regulations on temporary export, re-import of narcotics, precursors, addictive medicinal products, psychotropic medicinal products; violating regulations on export, import, temporary import, re-export, temporary export, re-import, transit of precursor medicinal products, pharmaceutical starting materials which are addictive active ingredients, psychotropic active ingredients, precursors used as medicinal products, veterinary medicinal products containing narcotics or precursors;
c) Violating regulations on research, expertise, production, preservation of narcotics, precursors, addictive medicinal products, psychotropic medicinal products, which is not serious enough for penal liability examination; violating regulations on research, expertise, production, preservation of precursor medicinal products, pharmaceutical starting materials which are addictive active ingredients, psychotropic active ingredients, precursors used as medicinal products, veterinary medicinal products containing narcotics or precursors;
d) Violating regulations on delivery, receipt, transportation of narcotics, precursors, addictive medicinal products, psychotropic medicinal products, which is not serious enough for penal liability examination; violating regulations on delivery, receipt, transportation of precursor medicinal products, pharmaceutical starting materials which are addictive active ingredients, psychotropic active ingredients, precursors used as medicinal products, veterinary medicinal products containing narcotics or precursors;
dd) Violating regulations on distribution, trading, exchange of narcotics, precursors, addictive medicinal products, psychotropic medicinal products, which is not serious enough for penal liability examination; violating regulations on distribution, trading, exchange of precursor medicinal products, pharmaceutical starting materials which are addictive active ingredients, psychotropic active ingredients, precursors used as medicinal products, veterinary medicinal products containing narcotics or precursors;
e) Violating regulations on management, control, storage of narcotics, precursors, addictive medicinal products, psychotropic medicinal products in border-gate areas, border areas, at sea, which is not serious enough for penal liability examination; violating regulations on management, control, storage of precursor medicinal products, pharmaceutical starting materials which are addictive active ingredients, psychotropic active ingredients, precursors used as medicinal products, veterinary medicinal products containing narcotics or precursors in border-gate areas, border areas, at sea;
g) Violating regulations on allocation, permission for use of narcotics, addictive medicinal products or psychotropic medicinal products, which is not serious enough for penal liability examination; violating regulations on allocation, permission for use of precursor medicinal products, pharmaceutical starting materials which are addictive active ingredients, psychotropic active ingredients, precursors used as medicinal products, veterinary medicinal products containing narcotics or precursors;
h) Being negligent in the compliance with regulations on state governance of business activities by heads, legal representatives, persons assigned to manage business, service establishments, managers of means of transport or other individuals responsible for managing restaurants, accommodation establishments, clubs, karaoke business, discotheque business, video game business, or means of transport, thereby allowing illegal storing, trading, or using narcotics to occur in the areas or means under their management.
6. A fine of between VND 40,000,000 and VND 50,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Illegally researching, expertizing, testing, inspecting, producing, storing, transporting, preserving, stockpiling, trading, distributing, handling, exchanging, exporting, importing, temporarily importing, re-exporting, temporarily exporting, re-importing, transiting precursors, addictive medicinal products, psychotropic medicinal products, precursor medicinal products, pharmaceutical starting materials which are addictive active ingredients, psychotropic active ingredients, precursors used as medicinal products, veterinary medicinal products containing narcotics or precursors;
b) Appropriating addictive medicinal products, psychotropic medicinal products, precursor medicinal products, pharmaceutical starting materials which are addictive active ingredients, psychotropic active ingredients, precursors used as medicinal products, veterinary medicinal products containing narcotics or precursors;
c) Retaliating upon or obstructing persons performing or involving in counter-narcotics duties;
d) Instructing on production or instructing on illegal use of narcotics.
7. A fine of between VND 50,000,000 and VND 75,000,000 shall be imposed on the act of providing locations, means for other persons to illegally store narcotics.
8. Additional sanctions:
a) Confiscation of object evidence of the administrative violation prescribed at Point a, Clause 1; Clauses 2 and 3; Point a, Clause 4; Points b, c, d, dd, e and g, Clause 5; and Points a and b, Clause 6 of this Article;
b) Deprivation of the right to use the permit, practising certificate, or Certificate of satisfaction of security and public order conditions for a definite period of between 03 and 06 months in case of committing the violations prescribed at Point h, Clause 5 of this Article, unless otherwise the law regulations prescribe the revocation of such permit, practising certificate, or Certificate of satisfaction of security and public order conditions;
c) Suspension of operations for a definite period of between 03 and 06 months in case of committing the violation prescribed at Point b, Clause 5 of this Article;
d) Depending on the nature, severity, and consequences of the violation, the violator, and any mitigating or aggravating circumstances, the imposition of the sanction of expulsion on any foreign national who commits any administrative violation prescribed in Clauses 6 and 7 of this Article may be considered.
9. Remedial measures:
Forcible refund of illicit profits earned from the commission of violations prescribed at Points b and c, Clause 2; Point a, Clause 4; Points b, c and dd, Clause 5; Point a, Clause 6 of this Article.
Article 31. Violation of the regulations on drug rehabilitation
1. A fine of between VND 5,000,000 and VND 10,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Failing to promulgate the drug rehabilitation process or the process for providing voluntary home-based and community-based drug rehabilitation services;
b) Failing to publicly and transparently notify the types of services, service implementation processes, drug rehabilitation service prices;
c) Failing to sign drug rehabilitation service contracts;
d) Failing to notify the competent People’s Committees when persons undergoing drug rehabilitation arbitrarily terminate or complete the use of drug rehabilitation services.
2. A fine of between VND 10,000,000 and VND 15,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Failing to comply with the decision on revocation of the permit for drug rehabilitation;
b) Failing to comply with the decision on suspension of drug rehabilitation for a definite period of time.
3. A fine of between VND 15,000,000 and VND 20,000,000 shall be imposed on improperly or incompletely implementing the drug rehabilitation process, or the process for providing voluntary home-based and community-based drug rehabilitation services.
4. A fine of between VND 20,000,000 and VND 40,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Performing drug rehabilitation beyond the scope of activities stated in the permit for voluntary drug rehabilitation;
b) Performing drug rehabilitation by public drug rehabilitation establishments beyond the scope of functions and tasks vested to them by competent state authorities.
5. A fine of between VND 40,000,000 and VND 50,000,000 shall be imposed on lending, leasing, transferring or using the permit for voluntary drug rehabilitation for other purposes.
6. A fine of between VND 50,000,000 and VND 75,000,000 shall be imposed on organizing drug rehabilitation without being registered or permitted for operation, or failing to satisfy operation conditions in accordance with regulations.
7. Remedial measures:
a) Forcible notification to the competent People’s Committee when persons undergoing drug rehabilitation arbitrarily terminate or complete the use of drug rehabilitation services in case of committing the violation prescribed at Point d, Clause 1 of this Article;
b) Forcible public, transparent notification of types of services, service implementation processes, drug rehabilitation service prices in case of committing the violation prescribed at Point b, Clause 1 of this Article;
c) Forcible signing of drug rehabilitation service contracts in case of committing the violation prescribed at Point c, Clause 1 of this Article.
Article 32. Paying for sexual conducts
1. A fine of between VND 1,000,000 and VND 2,000,000 shall be imposed on paying for sexual conducts.
2. A fine of between VND 2,000,000 and VND 5,000,000 shall be imposed on paying for sexual conducts with 02 persons or more at the same time.
3. Additional sanctions:
Confiscation of object evidence of the administrative violations prescribed in Clauses 1 and 2 of this Article.
Article 33. Offering paid sexual conducts
1. A warning or a fine of between VND 300,000 and VND 500,000 shall be imposed on offering paid sexual conducts.
2. A fine of between VND 1,000,000 and VND 2,000,000 shall be imposed on offering paid sexual conducts to 02 persons or more at the same time.
3. Additional sanctions:
a) Confiscation of object evidence of the administrative violations prescribed in Clauses 1 and 2 of this Article;
b) Depending on the nature, severity, and consequences of the violation, the violator, and any mitigating or aggravating circumstances, the imposition of the sanction of expulsion on any foreign national who commits any administrative violation prescribed in Clauses 1 and 2 of this Article may be considered.
4. Remedial measures:
Forcible refund of illicit profits earned from the commission of violations prescribed in Clauses 1 and 2 of this Article.
Article 34. Other acts related to prostitution
1. A warning or a fine of between VND 300,000 and VND 500,000 shall be imposed on having or offering paid sexual intercourse or sexual stimulation.
2. A fine of between VND 5,000,000 and VND 10,000,000 shall be imposed on concealing and protecting prostitution.
3. A fine of between VND 10,000,000 and VND 20,000,000 shall be imposed on assisting, enticing, instigating, abusing or coercing other persons to engage in prostitution.
4. A fine of between VND 30,000,000 and VND 50,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Using force or threatening to use force to protect and maintain prostitution activities;
b) Contributing money and assets to use for the purpose of prostitution;
c) Brokering prostitution, which is not serious enough for penal liability examination.
5. A fine of between VND 50,000,000 and VND 75,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the following violations: abusing positions, powers or prestige to protect and maintain prostitution activities.
6. Remedial measures:
Forcible refund of illicit profits earned from the commission of violations prescribed in Clauses 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 of this Article.
Article 35. Taking advantage of prostitution and other sexual activities as a business method or being negligent, thereby allowing prostitution, pornography, sexual suggestiveness and sexual stimulation to occur at business and service establishments
1. A fine of between VND 20,000,000 and VND 30,000,000 shall be imposed on being negligent in the compliance with regulations on state governance of business activities by heads, legal representatives, persons assigned to manage business or service establishments, thereby allowing prostitution, pornography, sexual suggestiveness or sexual stimulation to occur at the establishments under their management.
2. A fine of between VND 30,000,000 and VND 40,000,000 shall be imposed on exploiting prostitution and other sexual activities as a business method.
3. Additional sanctions:
a) Deprivation of the right to use the Certificate of satisfaction of security and public order conditions for a definite period of between 03 and 06 months in case of committing the violations prescribed in Clauses 1 and 2 of this Article, unless otherwise the law regulations prescribe the revocation of such Certificate of satisfaction of security and public order conditions;
b) Depending on the nature, severity, and consequences of the violation, the violator, and any mitigating or aggravating circumstances, the imposition of the sanction of expulsion on any foreign national who commits any administrative violation prescribed in Clauses 1 and 2 of this Article may be considered.
4. Remedial measures:
Forcible refund of illicit profits earned from the commission of the violation prescribed in Clause 2 of this Article.
Article 36. Illegal gambling
1. A fine of between VND 200,000 and VND 500,000 shall be imposed on buying lottery numbers.
2. A fine of between VND 1,000,000 and VND 2,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Illegally gambling in one of the games such as Vietnamese coin-shaking game, Vietnamese gin rummy, Vietnamese khanhoo, poker, three chrysanthemum cards, three-card poker, four color cards, betting, Chinese chess puzzles, 6-card Indian poker, 13-card Chinese poker, thirteen, cockfighting, Chinese dice game, or other games for the purpose of winning or losing in money, assets, or in kind, which is not serious enough for penal liability examination;
b) Gambling with illegal machines or video games, which is not serious enough for penal liability examination;
c) Illegal betting in sports competitions, entertainment or otherwise, which is not serious enough for penal liability examination.
3. A fine of between VND 2,000,000 and VND 5,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Illegally receiving deposits, pawnbroking, providing loans at casinos or other gambling places;
b) Selling lottery numbers or boards, other publications for the lottery, or giving them to another person for commission;
c) Aiding and concealing illegal gambling activities; 
d) Protecting gambling dens;
dd) Being negligent in the compliance with regulations on state governance of business activities by owners or managers of video game consoles, owners of business establishments, managers of video game business establishments or other business or service establishments, thereby allowing gambling activities to occur at the establishments under their management.
4. A fine of between VND 5,000,000 and VND 10,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations related to organizing gambling below:
a) Inciting, enticing, gathering other persons to gamble illegally, which is not serious enough for penal liability examination;
b) Using houses, accommodations, means of transport, other locations owned or managed by oneself to host gambling, which is not serious enough for penal liability examination;
c) Illegally placing slot machines or video games; 
d) Organizing illegal money-making betting, which is not serious enough for penal liability examination, unless otherwise prescribed at Point d, Clause 5 of this Article.
5. A fine of between VND 10,000,000 and VND 20,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations related to organizing illegal lottery betting below:
a) Acting as a bookmaker in illegal lottery betting, which is not serious enough for penal liability examination;
b) Organizing the production and distribution of illegal lottery betting sheets or other printed matters used for illegal lottery betting;
c) Organizing a network of illegal lottery betting agents, which is not serious enough for penal liability examination;
d) Organizing betting in sports competitions, entertainment or otherwise to gamble for money, which is not serious enough for penal liability examination.
6. Additional sanctions:
a) Confiscation of object evidence of the administrative violations prescribed in Clause 1; Clause 2; Points a and b, Clause 3; Points c and d, Clause 4 and Clause 5 of this Article;
b) Suspension of operations for a definite period of between 06 and 12 months in case of committing the violation prescribed at Point dd, Clause 3 of this Article;
c) Depending on the nature, severity, and consequences of the violation, the violator, and any mitigating or aggravating circumstances, the imposition of the sanction of expulsion on any foreign national who commits any administrative violation prescribed at Point dd, Clause 3, Points c and d, Clause 4, Clause 5 of this Article may be considered.
7. Remedial measures:
Forcible refund of illicit profits earned from the commission of violations prescribed in Clause 1; Clause 2; Points a and b, Clause 3; Points b, c and d Clause 4 and Clause 5 of this Article.

Section 3
ADMINISTRATIVE VIOLATIONS RELATING TO DOMESTIC VIOLENCE PREVENTION AND CONTROL

Article 37. Mistreating, ill-treating, beating, threatening or otherwise intentionally harming human health and life
1. A fine of between VND 2,000,000 and VND 5,000,000 shall be imposed on threatening to harm the health or life of family members.
2. A fine of between VND 5,000,000 and VND 10,000,000 shall be imposed on beating or otherwise intentionally harming the health or life of family members, which is not serious enough for penal liability examination.
3. A fine of between VND 10,000,000 and VND 20,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Maltreating or abusing, such as forcing deprivation of food or water; forcing exposure to cold; requiring the wearing of torn clothing; denying or restricting personal hygiene;
b) Using tools, devices or other items to cause injury to family members, which is not serious enough for penal liability examination;
c) Failing to timely take domestic violence victims for emergency or treatment by domestic violence perpetrators. In case where such victims need timely emergency, or failing to take care of such victims during the time they are treated for injuries caused by domestic violence, unless otherwise the domestic violence victims or their guardians or legal representatives refuse.
4. Additional sanctions:
Confiscation of object evidence of the administrative violations prescribed at Point b, Clause 3 of this Article, unless otherwise such object evidence is not separate assets of the domestic violence perpetrator.
5. Remedial measures:
a) Forcible public apology upon request of the domestic violence victim at private home, workplace, other locations or on mass media in case of committing the violations prescribed in Clause 1 and Clause 2; Points a and b, Clause 3 of this Article;
b) Forcible payment of all expenses for medical examination and treatment in case of committing the violations prescribed in Clause 2 and Point b, Clause 3 of this Article.
Article 38. Neglecting, paying no attention to; failing to nurture, failing to take care of family members being pregnant women, women raising children under 36 months of age, persons with disabilities, weakened elderly persons, elderly persons, persons unable to take care of themselves; failing to provide education to family members being children
1. A fine of between VND 10,000,000 and VND 20,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Neglecting or paying no attention to; failing to nurture or take care of family members being pregnant women, women raising children under 36 months of age, persons with disabilities, weakened elderly persons, elderly persons, persons unable to take care of themselves;
b) Failing to provide education to family members being children.
2. The Government’s Decree prescribing sanctions for administrative violations of regulations on social protection, social assistance and children and relevant legal normative documents shall apply for handling of, and imposition of sanctions on, the following administrative violations: neglecting, paying no attention to; failing to nurture, failing to take care of family members who are children, which are not yet prescribed in this Decree.
3. Remedial measures:
Forcible public apology upon request of the domestic violence victim at private home, workplace, other locations or on mass media in case of committing the violations prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article.
Article 39. Offending the honor and dignity of family members
1. A fine of between VND 5,000,000 and VND 10,000,000 shall be imposed on verbally abusing, berating or otherwise intentionally offending the honor and dignity of family members, unless otherwise prescribed in Clause 2 of this Article.
2. A fine of between VND 10,000,000 and VND 20,000,000 shall be imposed on disclosing or spreading information about private life, personal secrets, family secrets of family members in order to offend their honor and dignity.
3. Remedial measures:
a) Forcible public apology upon request of the domestic violence victim at private home, workplace, other locations or on mass media in case of committing the violations prescribed in Clause 1 and Clause 2 of this Article;
b) Forcible recall of materials, documents, leaflets, articles, and images in case of committing the violations prescribed in Clause 2 of this Article.
Article 40. Coercing, obstructing, isolating, confining, and constantly putting psychological pressure
1. A fine of between VND 5,000,000 and VND 10,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Preventing family members from meeting relatives, having legal, healthy social relationships or otherwise isolating or constantly putting psychological pressure on them;
b) Discriminating against body, gender, capacity of family members;
c) Obstructing the exercise of familial rights and obligations between grandparents and grandchildren or between parents and children or between husband and wife or among siblings;
d) Coercing a family member to study beyond their physical or mental capacity.
2. A fine of between VND 10,000,000 and VND 20,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Coercing family members to witness violence against humans or animals to constantly put psychological pressure on them;
b) Coercing family members to listen to sounds, view images, or read content inciting violence.
3. A fine of between VND 20,000,000 and VND 30,000,000 shall be imposed on isolating or confining family members, unless otherwise prescribed at Point a, Clause 1 of this Article. 
4. The Government’s Decree prescribing sanctions for administrative violations of regulations on judicial support; judicial administration; marriage and family; civil judgment execution; bankruptcy of enterprises, cooperatives and relevant legal normative documents shall apply for handling of, and imposition of sanctions on, the following administrative violations: coercing child marriage, adult marriage, or divorce, or obstructing lawful marriage or divorce, which are not yet prescribed in this Decree.
5. Remedial measures:
Forcible public apology upon request of the domestic violence victim at private home, workplace, other locations or on mass media in case of committing the violations prescribed in Clause 1, Clause 2 and Clause 3 of this Article.
Article 41. Sexual violence
1. A fine of between VND 10,000,000 and VND 20,000,000 shall be imposed on coercing family members to listen to pornographic sounds, view pornographic images, or read pornographic content. 
2. A fine of between VND 20,000,000 and VND 30,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Coercing family members to perform pornographic acts;
b) Coercing spouses into sexual intercourse against their will without being held criminally liable.
3. The Government’s Decree prescribing sanctions for administrative violations of regulations on health, and relevant legal normative documents shall apply for handling of, and imposition of sanctions on, the following administrative violations: coercing pregnancy, coercing abortion, and conducting prenatal sex selection, which are not yet prescribed in this Decree.
4. Remedial measures:
Forcible public apology upon request of the domestic violence victim at private home, workplace, other locations or on mass media in case of committing the violations prescribed in Clause 1 and Clause 2 of this Article.
Article 42. Preventing the exercise of familial rights and obligations between grandparents and grandchildren; between parents and children; between husband and wife; and among siblings
A fine of between VND 5,000,000 and VND 10,000,000 shall be imposed on obstructing the right to visit or care between grandparents and grandchildren; between husband and wife; among siblings; between parents and children, unless otherwise parents are restricted from visiting children under court rulings.
Article 43. Violations of regulations on care, upbringing and alimony
1. A fine of between VND 5,000,000 and VND 10,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Refusing or evading the alimony obligations between husband and wife after divorce; refusing or evading the obligations of siblings to nurture each other or the obligations of paternal or maternal grandparents to bring up their grandchildren in accordance with the law regulations;
b) Refusing or evading the obligations to support and take care of parents; the obligations to support and take care of children after divorce in accordance with the law regulations.
2. Remedial measures:
Forcible performance of the alimony and upbringing obligations as prescribed in case of committing the violation prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article.
Article 44. Economic violence
1. A fine of between VND 20,000,000 and VND 30,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Appropriating family assets or separate assets of other family members;
b) Destroying family assets or separate assets of other family members, which is not serious enough for penal liability examination;
c) Coercing family members to overwork;
d) Coercing family members to make financial contributions beyond their financial capacity;
dd) Controlling assets or income of family members to create dependence on material, spiritual or other aspects.
2. Remedial measures:
a) Forcible restoration of the original condition in case of committing the violation prescribed at Point b, Clause 1 of this Article, unless otherwise the original condition of the assets cannot be restored;
b) Forcible return of illegally seized assets or Forcible return of an amount equal to the value of the illegally seized assets which have been consumed, dispersed, or destroyed in contravention of the law regulations to the lawful owners in case of committing the violations prescribed at Points a, d and dd, Clause 1 of this Article.
Article 45. Illegally coercing family members out of their lawful residence
1. A fine of between VND 5,000,000 and VND 10,000,000 shall be imposed on illegally coercing family members out of their lawful residence, unless otherwise prescribed in Clause 2 and Clause 3 of this Article.
2. A fine of between VND 10,000,000 and VND 20,000,000 shall be imposed on threatening to harm their health or life with the intent to illegally force family members out of their lawful residence.
3. A fine of between VND 20,000,000 and VND 30,000,000 shall be imposed on using tools, devices or other items causing injury to family members with the intent to illegally force family members out of their lawful residence.
4. Remedial measures:
Forcible public apology upon request of the domestic violence victim at private home, workplace, other locations or on mass media in case of committing the violations prescribed in Clause 1, Clause 2 and Clause 3 of this Article.
Article 46. Violence against persons preventing, detecting, or reporting domestic violence, or persons helping domestic violence victims
1. A fine of between VND 5,000,000 and VND 10,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Threatening persons preventing, detecting, or reporting domestic violence, or persons helping domestic violence victims or otherwise obstructing the detection, reporting, denouncing, or prevention of domestic violence;
b) Offending the honor or dignity of persons preventing, detecting, or reporting domestic violence, or persons helping domestic violence victims.
2. A fine of between VND 10,000,000 and VND 20,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Retaliating upon or assaulting persons preventing, detecting, reporting domestic violence, or persons helping domestic violence victims;
b) Vandalizing or destroying assets of persons preventing, detecting, or reporting domestic violence, or persons helping domestic violence victims, which is not serious enough for penal liability examination.
3. Remedial measures:
a) Forcible restoration of the original condition in case of committing the violation prescribed at Point b, Clause 2 of this Article, unless otherwise the original condition of the assets cannot be restored;
b) Forcible public apology upon request of persons preventing, detecting, or reporting domestic violence, or persons helping domestic violence victims at private home, workplace, other locations or on mass media in case of committing the violations prescribed in Clause 1 and Clause 2 of this Article.
Article 47. Inciting, instigating, enticing, seducing, assisting, coercing other persons to commit domestic violence
1. A fine of between VND 5,000,000 and VND 10,000,000 shall be imposed on inciting, instigating, enticing, seducing, assisting other persons to commit domestic violence.
2. A fine of between VND 10,000,000 and VND 20,000,000 shall be imposed on coercing other persons to commit domestic violence.
Article 48. Violations of regulations on prevention or domestic violence, reporting, receiving and handling reports and denunciations on domestic violence
1. A fine of between VND 1,000,000 and VND 4,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Knowing and being able to prevent domestic violence but failing to do so;
b) Knowing but failing to report domestic violence to competent authorities, organizations, persons;
c) Tolerating or covering up for domestic violence perpetrators;
d) Failing to arrange personnel on duty at the National Hotline for Domestic Violence Prevention and Control 24 hours all days to receive reports and denunciations on domestic violence;
dd) Failing to correctly and fully perform tasks, processes, regulations on receiving and handling reports and denunciations on domestic violence via the National Hotline for Domestic Violence Prevention and Control.
2. A fine of between VND 5,000,000 and VND 10,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Obstructing the handling of domestic violence;
b) Failing to handle or illegally handling domestic violence;
c) Failing to comply with community-based criticism or reprimand for domestic violence perpetrators, or failing to perform community service as decided by the Chairpersons of the commune-level People’s Committees.
Article 49. Using or spreading information, documents, images, and sounds to incite domestic violence
A fine of between VND 2,000,000 and VND 4,000,000 shall be imposed on using or spreading information, documents, images, and sounds to incite domestic violence.
Article 50. Violations of regulations on disclosing or spreading information about domestic violence victims, persons reporting, denouncing domestic violence and failing to publicize the price list of paid domestic violence prevention and control support services in accordance with the law regulations
1. A fine of between VND 3,000,000 and VND 5,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Intentionally disclosing, or creating conditions for domestic violence perpetrators to know, the temporary shelter of domestic violence victims;
b) Disclosing or spreading information about persons reporting, denouncing domestic violence without the consent of the persons reporting or denouncing domestic violence or their guardians or legal representatives.
2. A fine of between VND 4,000,000 and VND 6,000,000 shall be imposed on failing to publicize the price list of paid domestic violence prevention and control support services in accordance with the law regulations.
Article 51. Taking advantage of domestic violence prevention and control activities to commit illegal acts
1. A fine of between VND 2,000,000 and VND 4,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Demanding money from domestic violence victims or their family members after providing assistance to the victim, or demanding an amount exceeding the listed prices at domestic violence prevention and support facilities;
b) Requesting payment of living expenses of domestic violence victims at community-based trusted addresses;
c) Taking advantage of the hardship of domestic violence victims to induce them to commit illegal acts.
2. A fine of between VND 10,000,000 and VND 30,000,000 shall be imposed on any of the violations below:
a) Establishing facilities providing domestic violence prevention and control support services for profits;
b) Taking advantage of domestic violence prevention and control activities to commit illegal acts.
3. Additional sanctions:
Deprivation of the right to use permits or practising certificates for a definite period of between 06 and 12 months in case of committing the violations prescribed in Clause 2 of this Article.
4. Remedial measures:
a) Forcible refund of illicit profits earned from the commission of violations prescribed at Points a and b, Clause 1; Point a, Clause 2 of this Article;
b) Forcible public apology upon request of the domestic violence victim at private home, workplace, other locations or on mass media in case of committing the violations prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article.
Article 52. Violations of regulations on registration of operations and operating scope with authorities in charge of state governance of domestic violence prevention and control committed by establishments providing domestic violence prevention and control support services
1. A fine of between VND 5,000,000 and VND 10,000,000 shall be imposed on establishments providing domestic violence prevention and control support services operating outside the scope of the operation registration certificates.
2. A fine of between VND 10,000,000 and VND 20,000,000 shall be imposed on establishments providing domestic violence prevention and control support services operating without being granted the operation registration certificates or failing to register for operation.
Article 53. Violations of regulations on prohibition of contact under the Court rulings or the decisions of Chairpersons of commune-level People’s Committees
1. A fine of between VND 500,000 and VND 1,000,000 shall be imposed on intentionally approaching domestic violence victims within 100 meters without a wall or partition to ensure safety during the execution period of the decision on prohibition of contact.
2. A fine of between VND 3,000,000 and VND 5,000,000 shall be imposed on using telephones, emails or other means or tools to commit domestic violence against persons with whom contact is prohibited.
3. Additional sanctions:
Confiscation of object evidence of the administrative violation prescribed in Clause 2 of this Article.

Chapter III
COMPETENCE TO IMPOSE SANCTIONS ON ADMINISTRATIVE VIOLATIONS

Article 54. Competence of Chairpersons of People’s Committees
1. Chairpersons of commune-level People’s Committees shall be vested with the right to impose:
a) Issue warnings;
b) Impose fines up to VND 15,000,000; VND 20,000,000; or VND 37,500,000 on administrative violations of regulations on domestic violence prevention and control; security, public order, and social safety; or social vices prevention and combat, respectively;
c) Deprive of the right to use a permit or practising certificate for a definite period of time or suspend operations for a definite period of time;
d) Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations;
dd) Apply the remedial measure prescribed in Clause 3, Article 3 of this Decree.
2. Chairpersons of provincial-level People’s Committees are vested the right to:
a) Issue warnings;
b) Impose fines up to VND 30,000,000; VND 40,000,000; or VND 75,000,000 on administrative violations of regulations on domestic violence prevention and control; security, public order, and social safety; or social vices prevention and combat, respectively;
c) Deprive of the right to use a permit or practising certificate for a definite period of time or suspend operations for a definite period of time;
d) Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations;
dd) Apply the remedial measure prescribed in Clause 3, Article 3 of this Decree.
Article 55. Competence of the People’s Public Security Forces
1. People’s Public Security officers while performing official duties shall be vested the right to:
a) Issue warnings;
b) Impose fines up to VND 3,000,000; VND 4,000,000; or VND 7,500,000 on administrative violations of regulations on domestic violence prevention and control; security, public order, and social safety; or social vices prevention and combat, respectively;
c) Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations, the value of which shall not exceed twice the fine prescribed at Point b of this Clause.
2. Heads of company-level mobile police units are vested the right to:
a) Issue warnings;
b) Impose fines up to VND 6,000,000; VND 8,000,000; or VND 15,000,000 on administrative violations of regulations on domestic violence prevention and control; security, public order, and social safety; or social vices prevention and combat, respectively;
c) Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations, the value of which shall not exceed twice the fine prescribed at Point b of this Clause;
d) Apply the remedial measures prescribed at Points a, c, and e, Clause 1, Article 28 of the Law on Handling of Administrative Violations.
3. Chiefs of Police Stations, Heads of battalion-level Mobile Police units, Heads of Waterway Police teams, Heads of stations, Heads of teams are vested the right to:
a) Issue warnings;
b) Impose fines up to VND 9,000,000; VND 12,000,000; or VND 22,500,000 on administrative violations of regulations on domestic violence prevention and control; security, public order, and social safety; or social vices prevention and combat, respectively;
c) Deprive of the right to use a permit or practising certificate for a definite period of time or suspend operations for a definite period of time;
d) Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations, the value of which shall not exceed twice the fine prescribed at Point b of this Clause;
dd) Apply the remedial measures prescribed at Points a, c, and e, Clause 1, Article 28 of the Law on Handling of Administrative Violations.
4. Chiefs of commune-level Police Stations are vested the right to:
a) Issue warnings;
b) Impose fines up to VND 15,000,000; VND 20,000,000; or VND 37,500,000 on administrative violations of regulations on domestic violence prevention and control; security, public order, and social safety; or social vices prevention and combat, respectively;
c) Deprive of the right to use a permit or practising certificate for a definite period of time or suspend operations for a definite period of time;
d) Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations;
dd) Apply the remedial measure prescribed in Clause 3, Article 3 of this Decree.
5. Chiefs of Border Gate Police Stations at International Airports; Heads of professional divisions under the Department of Homeland Security, including: Head of the General Advisory Division, Head of the Catholic Security Division, Head of the Division for Security of Other Religions, Head of the Ethnic Minority Security Division, Head of the Anti-Reactionary Division, Head of the Counter-Terrorism Division, Head of the Social Security Division; Heads of professional divisions under the Department of Internal Political Security, including: Head of the Division for Internal Protection of Central-level Party Agencies and State Authorities, Head of the Division for Security of Judiciary, Legislative, and Central-level Socio-Political Organizations, Head of the Press and Publication Security Division, Head of the Health and Education Security Division, Head of the Culture, Sports, and Social Affairs Security Division, Head of the Posts, Telecommunications, and Information Technology Security Division, Head of the Division for State Management of State Secrets Protection; Heads of professional divisions under the Department of Economic Security, including: Head of the Industry and Trade Security Division, Head of the Monetary Security Division, Head of the Transport and Construction Security Division, Head of the Finance and Investment Security Division, Head of the Agriculture, Forestry, and Fishery Security Division, Head of the Science, Technology, and Resources and Environment Security Division; Heads of professional divisions under the Counter-Narcotics Police Department, including: Head of the Division for Prevention and Investigation of Crimes related to Illegal Trading and Transportation of Narcotics, Head of the Division for Prevention and Investigation of Crimes related to Organizing or Harboring Illegal Use of Narcotics, Head of the Division for Prevention and Investigation of Crimes related to Illegal Production of Narcotics, Head of the Division for Prevention and Investigation of Crimes in Legal Drug-related Activities; Heads of professional divisions under the Police Department for Administrative Management of Social Order, including: Head of the Division for Guidance and Management of Weaponry, Explosives, tactical gear, and Pyrotechnics, Head of the Division for Guidance and Management of Business Lines with Security and Public Order Conditions, and Seals, Director of the National Center for Residents Data; Heads of professional divisions under the Traffic Police Department, including: Head of the Division for Guidance on Communications, Investigation, and Handling of Traffic Accidents, Head of the Division for Guidance, Registration, and Inspection of Vehicles, Head of the Division for Guidance, Training, Testing, and Management of Driving Licenses, Head of the Division for Guidance on Patrol and Control of Road and Railway Traffic, Head of the Division for Guidance on Traffic Control and Escort, Head of the Division for Guidance on Patrol, Control, and Crime Prevention on Inland Waterways, Commanders of Waterway Police Squadrons; Heads of professional divisions under the Fire and Rescue Police Department, including: Head of the Fire Prevention Division, Head of the Fire Safety Assessment and Approval Division, Head of the Division for Firefighting, Rescue and Salvage, Head of the Division for Science and Technology Management and Inspection of Equipment for Fire Prevention, Firefighting, Rescue and Salvage; Heads of professional divisions under the Department of Cybersecurity and High-Tech Crimes, including: Head of the Division for Prevention and Control of Crimes using Cyberspace to undermine Economic Management Order, Head of the Division for Prevention and Control of Crimes using Cyberspace to undermine Social Order, Head of the Cyberinformation Security Division, Head of the Division for Protection of National Information Network System Security, Head of the Division for Cyberinformation Surveillance and Prevention of Activities using Cyberspace to undermine National Security; Heads of professional divisions under the Immigration Department, including: Head of the Division for Management of Entry, Exit, and Residence of Foreigners, Head of the Division for Management of Exit and Entry of Vietnamese Citizens, Director of the National Aviation Security Center; Heads of professional divisions under the National Data Center, including: Head of the General Advisory Division, Head of the Application Administration Division, Head of the Data Administration Division, Head of the System Security and Safety Division, Head of the IT System Administration and Operation Division, Head of the Data Center Infrastructure Administration and Operation Division; Heads of professional divisions under the Department of Criminal Records and Archives, including: Director of the Professional Information and Data Center of the Ministry of Public Security, Director of the Professional Information Reception and Processing Center, Head of the Informatics and Criminal Records Database Management Division; Heads of regiment-level Mobile Police units; Heads of Divisions under provincial-level Police Departments, including: Heads of the Homeland Security Divisions, Heads of the Internal Political Security Divisions, Heads of the Police Divisions for Administrative Management of Social Order, Head of the Police Divisions for Investigation of Social Order-related Crimes, Heads of the Police Divisions for Investigation of Corruption, Economic, Smuggling, and Environmental Crimes, Heads of the Police Divisions for Investigation of Drug-related Crimes, Heads of the Traffic Police Divisions, Heads of the Mobile Police Divisions, Heads of the Police Divisions for Execution of Criminal Judgments and Judicial Support, Heads of the Fire and Rescue Police Divisions, Heads of the Cybersecurity and High-Tech Crime Divisions, Heads of the Economic Security Divisions, Heads of the External Security Divisions, Head of the Divisions of Criminal Records and Archives, and Chiefs of the Offices of the provincial-level Investigation Police Agencies are vested the right to:
a) Issue warnings;
b) Impose fines up to VND 24,000,000; VND 32,000,000; or VND 60,000,000 on administrative violations of regulations on domestic violence prevention and control; security, public order, and social safety; or social vices prevention and combat, respectively;
c) Deprive of the right to use a permit or practising certificate for a definite period of time or suspend operations for a definite period of time;
d) Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations;
dd) Apply the remedial measure prescribed in Clause 3, Article 3 of this Decree.
6. Heads of Immigration Divisions under provincial-level Police Departments have the competence to impose sanctions as prescribed in Clause 5 of this Article and are vested the right to decide to apply the sanction of expulsion.
7. Directors of provincial-level Police Departments are vested the right to:
a) Issue warnings;
b) Impose fines up to VND 30,000,000; VND 40,000,000; or VND 75,000,000 on administrative violations of regulations on domestic violence prevention and control; security, public order, and social safety; or social vices prevention and combat, respectively;
c) Deprive of the right to use a permit or practising certificate for a definite period of time or suspend operations for a definite period of time;
d) Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations;
dd) Impose the sanction of expulsion;
e) Apply the remedial measures prescribed in Clause 3, Article 3 of this Decree.
8. The Director of the Department of Internal Political Security, Chief of the Office of the Investigation Police Agency under the Ministry of Public Security, Director of the Economic Security Department, Director of the Police Department for Administrative Management of Social Order, Director of the Police Department of Social Order-related Crime Investigation, Director of the Police Department of Corruption, Smuggling and Economic Crime Investigation, Director of the Counter-Narcotics Police Department, Director of the Traffic Police Department, Director of the Fire and Rescue Police Department, Director of the Police Department of Environmental Crimes, Director of the Department of Cybersecurity and Hi-Tech Crimes, Director of the Department of Homeland Security, Director of the Police Department of Temporary Detention and Community-based Correction Management, Commander of the Mobile Police Command, Director of the National Data Center, and Director of the Department of Criminal Records and Archives are vested the right to:
a) Issue warnings;
b) Impose fines up to VND 30,000,000; VND 40,000,000; or VND 75,000,000 on administrative violations of regulations on domestic violence prevention and control; security, public order, and social safety; or social vices prevention and combat, respectively;
c) Deprive of the right to use a permit or practising certificate for a definite period of time or suspend operations for a definite period of time;
d) Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations;
dd) Apply the remedial measure prescribed in Clause 3, Article 3 of this Decree.
9. The Director of the Immigration Department has the competence to impose sanctions as prescribed in Clause 8 of this Article and is vested the right to decide to apply the sanction of expulsion.
Article 56. Competence of the Vietnam Border Guard
1. Border guard soldiers on official duty are vested the right to:
a) Issue warnings;
b) Impose fines up to VND 1,500,000; VND 2,000,000; or VND 3,750,000 on administrative violations of regulations on domestic violence prevention and control; security, public order, and social safety; or social vices prevention and combat, respectively;
c) Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations, the value of which shall not exceed twice the fine prescribed at Point b of this Clause.
2. Station chiefs or Team commanders of those prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article are vested the right to:
a) Issue warnings;
b) Impose fines up to VND 3,000,000; VND 4,000,000; or VND 7,500,000 on administrative violations of regulations on domestic violence prevention and control; security, public order, and social safety; or social vices prevention and combat, respectively;
c) Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations, the value of which shall not exceed twice the fine prescribed at Point b of this Clause;
d) Apply the remedial measures prescribed at Points a, c, and e, Clause 1, Article 28 of the Law on Handling of Administrative Violations.
3. Heads of the task force teams for counter-narcotics and crime suppression under the task force regiments for counter-narcotics and crime suppression are vested the right to:
a) Issue warnings;
b) Impose fines up to VND 4,500,000; VND 6,000,000; or VND 11,250,000 on administrative violations of regulations on domestic violence prevention and control; security, public order, and social safety; or social vices prevention and combat, respectively;
c) Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations, the value of which shall not exceed twice the fine prescribed at Point b of this Clause;
d) Apply the remedial measures prescribed at Points a, c, and e, Clause 1, Article 28 of the Law on Handling of Administrative Violations.
4. Chiefs of Border Guard stations, Captains of Border Guard squadrons and Commanders of Border Guard Command Committees at seaports are vested the right to:
a) Issue warnings;
b) Impose fines up to VND 9,000,000; VND 12,000,000; or VND 22,500,000 on administrative violations of regulations on domestic violence prevention and control; security, public order, and social safety; or social vices prevention and combat, respectively;
c) Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations, the value of which shall not exceed twice the fine prescribed at Point b of this Clause;
d) Apply the remedial measures prescribed in Clause 3, Article 3 of this Decree.
5. Heads of the task force regiments for counter-narcotics and crime suppression under the Border Guard High Command’s Department of Drug Control and Crime Prevention are vested the right to:
a) Issue warnings;
b) Impose fines up to VND 15,000,000; VND 20,000,000; or VND 37,500,000 on administrative violations of regulations on domestic violence prevention and control; security, public order, and social safety; or social vices prevention and combat, respectively;
c) Deprive of the right to use a permit or practising certificate for a definite period of time or suspend operations for a definite period of time;
d) Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations;
dd) Apply the remedial measure prescribed in Clause 3, Article 3 of this Decree.
6. Commanders of Border Guard Command Committees; Chiefs of Border Guard fleets and the Director of the Department of Drug Control and Crime Prevention under the Border Guard High Command are vested the right to:
a) Issue warnings;
b) Impose fines up to VND 30,000,000; VND 40,000,000; or VND 75,000,000 on administrative violations of regulations on domestic violence prevention and control; security, public order, and social safety; or social vices prevention and combat, respectively;
c) Deprive of the right to use a permit or practising certificate for a definite period of time or suspend operations for a definite period of time;
d) Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations;
dd) Apply the remedial measure prescribed in Clause 3, Article 3 of this Decree.
Article 57. Competence of the Vietnam Coast Guard
1. Coast Guard officers on official duty are vested the right to:
a) Issue warnings;
b) Impose fines up to VND 1,500,000; VND 2,000,000; or VND 3,750,000 on administrative violations of regulations on domestic violence prevention and control; security, public order, and social safety; or social vices prevention and combat, respectively;
c) Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations, the value of which shall not exceed twice the fine prescribed at Point b of this Clause.
2. Heads of Coast Guard professional teams are vested the right to:
a) Issue warnings;
b) Impose fines up to VND 3,000,000; VND 4,000,000; or VND 7,500,000 on administrative violations of regulations on domestic violence prevention and control; security, public order, and social safety; or social vices prevention and combat, respectively;
c) Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations, the value of which shall not exceed twice the fine prescribed at Point b of this Clause.
3. Heads of professional operation squads of the Vietnam Coast Guard and Heads of Coast Guard stations are vested the right to:
a) Issue warnings;
b) Impose fines up to VND 6,000,000; VND 8,000,000; or VND 15,000,000 on administrative violations of regulations on domestic violence prevention and control; security, public order, and social safety; or social vices prevention and combat, respectively;
c) Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations, the value of which shall not exceed twice the fine prescribed at Point b of this Clause;
d) Apply the remedial measures prescribed at Points a, c, and e, Clause 1, Article 28 of the Law on Handling of Administrative Violations.
4. Captains of Coast Guard squadrons are vested the right to:
a) Issue warnings;
b) Impose fines up to VND 9,000,000; VND 12,000,000; or VND 22,500,000 on administrative violations of regulations on domestic violence prevention and control; security, public order, and social safety; or social vices prevention and combat, respectively;
c) Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations, the value of which shall not exceed twice the fine prescribed at Point b of this Clause;
d) Apply the remedial measures prescribed in Clause 3, Article 3 of this Decree.
5. Chiefs of coast guard fleets; Heads of reconnaissance teams, and Heads of drug-related crime prevention and combat task force regiments of the Vietnam Coast Guard are vested the right to:
a) Issue warnings;
b) Impose fines up to VND 15,000,000; VND 20,000,000; or VND 37,500,000 on administrative violations of regulations on domestic violence prevention and control; security, public order, and social safety; or social vices prevention and combat, respectively;
c) Deprive of the right to use a permit or practising certificate for a definite period of time or suspend operations for a definite period of time;
d) Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations;
dd) Apply the remedial measure prescribed in Clause 3, Article 3 of this Decree.
6. Coast Guard regional commanders, and the Director of the Professional and Legal Department of the Vietnam Coast Guard are vested the right to:
a) Issue warnings;
b) Impose fines up to VND 24,000,000; VND 32,000,000; or VND 60,000,000 on administrative violations of regulations on domestic violence prevention and control; security, public order, and social safety; or social vices prevention and combat, respectively;
c) Deprive of the right to use a permit or practising certificate for a definite period of time;
d) Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations;
dd) Apply the remedial measure prescribed in Clause 3, Article 3 of this Decree.
7. The Vietnam Coast Guard Commander is vested the right to:
a) Issue warnings;
b) Impose fines up to VND 30,000,000; VND 40,000,000; or VND 75,000,000 on administrative violations of regulations on domestic violence prevention and control; security, public order, and social safety; or social vices prevention and combat, respectively;
c) Deprive of the right to use a permit or practising certificate for a definite period of time or suspend operations for a definite period of time;
d) Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations;
dd) Apply the remedial measure prescribed in Clause 3, Article 3 of this Decree.
Article 58. Competence of the Vietnam Customs
1. Customs officers on official duty are vested the right to:
a) Issue warnings;
b) Impose fines up to VND 2,000,000 or VND 3,750,000 on administrative violations of regulations on security, public order, and social safety, or social vices prevention and combat, respectively;
c) Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations, the value of which shall not exceed twice the fine prescribed at Point b of this Clause.
2. Heads of Border-gate/Outside-border-gate Customs Teams, Heads of Post-Clearance Audit and Inspection Teams, Heads of Clearance Teams, Heads of Customs Control Teams under Regional Customs Branches, Heads of Anti-Smuggling Control Teams under Anti-Smuggling Investigation Branches; Heads of Regional Post-Clearance Inspection Teams under Post-Clearance Inspection Branches are vested the right to:
a) Issue warnings;
b) Impose fines up to VND 12,000,000 or VND 22,500,000 on administrative violations of regulations on security, public order, and social safety, or social vices prevention and combat, respectively;
c) Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations, the value of which shall not exceed twice the fine prescribed at Point b of this Clause;
d) Apply the remedial measures prescribed in Clause 3, Article 3 of this Decree.
3. Heads of Anti-Smuggling Investigation Branches, Heads of Post-Clearance Inspection Branches, Heads of Regional Customs Branches are vested the right to:
a) Issue warnings;
b) Impose fines up to VND 20,000,000 or VND 37,500,000 on administrative violations of regulations on security, public order, and social safety, or social vices prevention and combat, respectively;
c) Deprive of the right to use a permit or practising certificate for a definite period of time or suspend operations for a definite period of time;
d) Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations;
dd) Apply the remedial measure prescribed in Clause 3, Article 3 of this Decree.
4. The Director of the Department of Vietnam Customs is vested the right to:
a) Issue warnings;
b) Impose fines up to VND 40,000,000 or VND 75,000,000 on administrative violations of regulations on security, public order, and social safety, or social vices prevention and combat, respectively;
c) Deprive of the right to use a permit or practising certificate for a definite period of time or suspend operations for a definite period of time;
d) Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations;
dd) Apply the remedial measure prescribed in Clause 3, Article 3 of this Decree.
Article 59. Competence of the Forest Protection Force
1. Forest rangers on official duty are vested the right to:
a) Issue warnings;
b) Impose fines up to VND 2,000,000 on administrative violations of regulations on security, public order, and social safety;
c) Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations, the value of which shall not exceed twice the fine prescribed at Point b of this Clause.
2. Heads of forest protection stations are vested the right to:
a) Issue warnings;
b) Impose fines up to VND 8,000,000 on administrative violations of regulations on security, public order, and social safety;
c) Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations, the value of which shall not exceed twice the fine prescribed at Point b of this Clause;
d) Apply the remedial measures prescribed in Clause 3, Article 3 of this Decree.
3. Directors of forest protection offices and Heads of mobile ranger and forest fire brigades are vested the right to:
a) Issue warnings;
b) Impose fines up to VND 12,000,000 on administrative violations of regulations on security, public order, and social safety;
c) Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations, the value of which shall not exceed twice the fine prescribed at Point b of this Clause;
d) Apply the remedial measures prescribed in Clause 3, Article 3 of this Decree.
4. Heads of Regional Forest Protection Branches, Heads of Forest Protection Task Force Teams under the Department of Forestry and Forest Protection, Heads of Branches in charge of forestry and forest protection under the Department of Agriculture and Environment are vested the right to:
a) Issue warnings;
b) Impose fines up to VND 20,000,000 on administrative violations of regulations on security, public order, and social safety;
c) Deprive of the right to use a permit or practising certificate for a definite period of time or suspend operations for a definite period of time;
d) Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations;
dd) Apply the remedial measure prescribed in Clause 3, Article 3 of this Decree.
5. The Director of the Forestry and Forest Protection Department is vested the right to:
a) Issue warnings;
b) Impose fines up to VND 40,000,000 on administrative violations of regulations on security, public order, and social safety;
c) Deprive of the right to use a permit or practising certificate for a definite period of time or suspend operations for a definite period of time;
d) Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations;
dd) Apply the remedial measure prescribed in Clause 3, Article 3 of this Decree.
Article 60. Competence of the Fisheries Resources Surveillance Force
1. Fisheries resources surveillance officers on official duty are vested the right to:
a) Issue warnings;
b) Impose fines up to VND 2,000,000 on administrative violations of regulations on security, public order, and social safety;
c) Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations, the value of which shall not exceed twice the fine prescribed at Point b of this Clause.
2. Heads of fisheries resources surveillance stations under regional fisheries resources surveillance branches are vested the right to:
a) Issue warnings;
b) Impose fines up to VND 8,000,000 on administrative violations of regulations on security, public order, and social safety;
c) Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations, the value of which shall not exceed twice the fine prescribed at Point b of this Clause;
d) Apply remedial measures prescribed at Points a, e and i, Clause 1, Article 28 of the Law on Handling of Administrative Violations and Point b, Clause 3, Article 3 of this Decree.
3. Heads of Regional Fisheries Resources Surveillance Branches under the Department of Fisheries and Fisheries Resources Surveillance; Heads of Branches in charge of fisheries and fisheries resources surveillance under the Department of Agriculture and Environment are vested the right to:
a) Issue warnings;
b) Impose fines up to VND 20,000,000 on administrative violations of regulations on security, public order, and social safety;
c) Deprive of the right to use a permit or practising certificate for a definite period of time or suspend operations for a definite period of time;
d) Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations;
dd) Apply the remedial measure prescribed in Clause 3, Article 3 of this Decree.
4. The Director of the Department of Fisheries and Fisheries Resources Surveillance is vested the right to:
a) Issue warnings;
b) Impose fines up to VND 40,000,000 on administrative violations of regulations on security, public order, and social safety;
c) Deprive of the right to use a permit or practising certificate for a definite period of time or suspend operations for a definite period of time;
d) Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations;
dd) Apply the remedial measure prescribed in Clause 3, Article 3 of this Decree.
Article 61. Competence of the Market Surveillance Force
1. Market surveillance officers on official duty are vested the right to:
a) Issue warnings;
b) Impose fines up to VND 4,000,000 on administrative violations of regulations on security, public order, and social safety;
c) Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations, the value of which shall not exceed twice the fine prescribed at Point b of this Clause.
2. Heads of Market Surveillance Teams under the provincial-level Departments of Industry and Trade’s Market Surveillance Branches are vested the right to:
a) Issue warnings;
b) Impose fines up to VND 12,000,000 on administrative violations of regulations on security, public order, and social safety;
c) Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations, the value of which shall not exceed twice the fine prescribed at Point b of this Clause;
d) Apply the remedial measures prescribed in Clause 3, Article 3 of this Decree.
3. Heads of Market Surveillance Branches, Heads of Market Surveillance Professional Divisions under the Department of Domestic Market Management and Development:
a) Issue warnings;
b) Impose fines up to VND 20,000,000 on administrative violations of regulations on security, public order, and social safety;
c) Deprive of the right to use a permit or practising certificate for a definite period of time or suspend operations for a definite period of time;
d) Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations;
dd) Apply the remedial measure prescribed in Clause 3, Article 3 of this Decree.
4. Director of the Department of Domestic Market Management and Development is vested the right to:
a) Issue warnings;
b) Impose fines up to VND 40,000,000 on administrative violations of regulations on security, public order, and social safety;
c) Deprive of the right to use a permit or practising certificate for a definite period of time or suspend operations for a definite period of time;
d) Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations;
dd) Apply the remedial measure prescribed in Clause 3, Article 3 of this Decree.
Article 62. Competence of the Inspectorates
1. Inspectors of the Ministry of National Defence, the Ministry of Public Security, the State Bank of Vietnam; Inspectors of the Government Cipher Committee, Vietnam Agency for Radiation and Nuclear Safety, Vietnam Maritime Administration, Civil Aviation Authority of Vietnam, State Securities Commission are vested the right to:
a) Issue warnings;
b) Impose fines up to VND 3,000,000; VND 4,000,000; or VND 7,500,000 on administrative violations of regulations on domestic violence prevention and control; security, public order, and social safety; or social vices prevention and combat, respectively;
c) Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations, the value of which shall not exceed twice the fine prescribed at Point b of this Clause.
2. Heads of inspection teams of the following authorities: Vietnam Agency for Radiation and Nuclear Safety, Vietnam Maritime Administration, Civil Aviation Authority of Vietnam, State Securities Commission, Regional State Bank branches, Police Department of Prison, Correctional Institution and Juvenile Reformatory Management, Fire and Rescue Police Department, provincial-level Police Departments, Government Cipher Committee; Heads of inspection teams of military zone-level units and the Hanoi Capital High Command are vested the right to:
a) Issue warnings;
b) Impose fines up to VND 15,000,000; VND 20,000,000; or VND 37,500,000 on administrative violations of regulations on domestic violence prevention and control; security, public order, and social safety; or social vices prevention and combat, respectively;
c) Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations;
d) Apply the remedial measures prescribed in Clause 3, Article 3 of this Decree.
3. Chief Inspector of Cipher; Chief Inspector of the Vietnam Agency for Radiation and Nuclear Safety; Chief Inspector of Vietnam Maritime Administration; Chief Inspector of the Civil Aviation Authority of Vietnam; Chief Inspector of the State Securities Commission; Chief National Defence Inspectors of military zones; Chief National Defence Inspector of the Hanoi Capital High Command; Chief Inspectors of Regional State Bank branches; Chief Inspector of the Police Department of Prison, Correctional Institution and Juvenile Reformatory Management; Chief Inspector of the Fire and Rescue Police Department; Chief Inspectors of provincial-level Police Departments are vested the right to:
a) Issue warnings;
b) Impose fines up to VND 24,000,000; VND 32,000,000; or VND 60,000,000 on administrative violations of regulations on domestic violence prevention and control; security, public order, and social safety; or social vices prevention and combat, respectively;
c) Deprive of the right to use a permit or practising certificate for a definite period of time or suspend operations for a definite period of time;
d) Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations;
dd) Apply the remedial measure prescribed in Clause 3, Article 3 of this Decree.
4. Chief Inspectors of the Ministry of National Defence, the Ministry of Public Security, the State Bank of Vietnam; Heads of inspection teams established by Chief Inspectors of the Ministry of National Defence, the Ministry of Public Security, the State Bank of Vietnam are vested the right to:
a) Issue warnings;
b) Impose fines up to VND 30,000,000; VND 40,000,000; or VND 75,000,000 on administrative violations of regulations on domestic violence prevention and control; security, public order, and social safety; or social vices prevention and combat, respectively;
c) Deprive of the right to use a permit or practising certificate for a definite period of time or suspend operations for a definite period of time;
d) Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations;
dd) Apply the remedial measure prescribed in Clause 3, Article 3 of this Decree.
Article 63. Competence of diplomatic missions, consular offices and other authorities authorized to perform the consular function of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam overseas
Heads of diplomatic missions, consular offices and other authorities authorized to perform the consular function of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam overseas are vested the right to:
1. Issue warnings.
2. Impose fines up to VND 40,000,000 on administrative violations of regulations on security, public order, and social safety.
3. Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations.
4. Apply the remedial measures prescribed in Clause 3, Article 3 of this Decree.
Article 64. Principles of determination and division of competence to impose sanctions for administrative violations
1. The competence to impose sanctions for administrative violations of the competent persons prescribed in Articles 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62 and 63 of this Decree shall be the competence applicable to an act of administrative violation of an individual. In case of imposing fines, the competence to impose sanctions for organizations shall be twice higher than the competence to impose sanctions for individuals.
2. Chairpersons of People’s Committees at all levels shall have the competence to impose sanctions on administrative violations and apply remedial measures for administrative violations prescribed in Chapter II of this Decree in accordance with the competence prescribed in Article 54 of this Decree and within the functions, tasks and powers vested to them.
3. The persons competent to impose sanctions of the People’s Public Security Forces shall have the competence to impose sanctions on administrative violations and apply remedial measures for administrative violations prescribed in Chapter II of this Decree in accordance with the competence prescribed in Article 55 of this Decree and the functions, tasks and powers vested to them within the field and localities under their management.
4. The persons competent to impose sanctions of the Vietnam Border Guard shall have the competence to impose sanctions on administrative violations and apply remedial measures for administrative violations prescribed in Articles 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14; Clause 2, Article 17; Articles 18, 20, 21, 22 and 26; Articles in Section 2 and Section 3, Chapter II of this Decree in accordance with the competence prescribed in Article 56 of this Decree, within the scope, field and localities under their management and the functions, tasks and powers vested to them.
5. Persons competent to impose sanctions of the Vietnam Coast Guard shall have the competence to impose sanctions on administrative violations and apply remedial measures for administrative violations prescribed in Article 8; Point a, Clause 1; Points a, b and c, Clause 2; Point a, Clause 4, Article 11; Articles 12, 13, 14, 18; Clause 1, Article 23; Article 24; Article 26; and Articles in Section 2 and Section 3, Chapter II of this Decree in accordance with the competence prescribed in Article 57 of this Decree and within the functions, tasks, powers vested to them and areas at sea under their management.
6. The persons competent to impose sanctions of the Vietnam Customs shall have the competence to impose sanctions on administrative violations and apply remedial measures for administrative violations prescribed at Points c and dd, Clause 3; Point c, Clause 4, Article 8; Articles 12, 13, 14; Point n, Clause 3, Article 15; Articles 21, 26 and 30 of this Decree in accordance with the competence prescribed in Article 58 of this Decree, within the functions, tasks and powers vested to them.
7. The persons competent to impose sanctions of the Forest Protection Force and the Fisheries Resources Surveillance Force shall have the competence to impose sanctions on administrative violations and apply remedial measures for administrative violations prescribed in Article 26 of this Decree in accordance with the competence prescribed in Articles 59 and 60 of this Decree, within the functions, tasks and powers vested to them.
8. Heads of diplomatic missions, consular offices and other authorities authorized to perform the consular function of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam overseas shall have the competence to impose sanctions on administrative violations and apply remedial measures for administrative violations prescribed in Articles 21 and 26 of this Decree in accordance with the competence prescribed in Article 63 of this Decree, within the functions, tasks and powers vested to them.
9. The persons competent to impose sanctions of the Inspectorates shall have the competence to impose sanctions on administrative violations and apply remedial measures for administrative violations prescribed in Articles 8, 26 and 29; Articles in Section 2 and Section 3, Chapter II of this Decree in accordance with the competence prescribed in Article 62 of this Decree, within the functions, tasks and powers vested to them.
10. The persons competent to impose sanctions of the Market Surveillance Force shall have the competence to impose sanctions on administrative violations and apply remedial measures for administrative violations prescribed in Articles 12, 13, 14, 23 and 24 of this Decree in accordance with the competence prescribed in Article 61 of this Decree, within the functions, tasks and powers vested to them.
Article 65. Competence to draw up written records of administrative violations
1. Persons competent to impose sanctions on the administrative violations prescribed in Articles 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62 and 63 of this Decree shall have the competence to draw up written records of such administrative violations.
2. Competent persons, persons assigned to perform inspection tasks, persons of the People’s Public Security Forces on duty or performing tasks in accordance with the functions, tasks, powers vested to them shall have the competence to draw up written records of the administrative violations.

Chapter IV 
IMPLEMENTATION PROVISIONS

Article 66. Amending and supplementing a number of articles of the Government’s Decree No. 142/2021/ND-CP dated December 31, 2021, providing the expulsion sanction, measure of holding persons in custody, escort of violators according to administrative procedures and management of foreigners who violate Vietnam’s law pending the completion of expulsion procedures
1. To amend and supplement Point a, Clause 2, Article 7 as follows:
“a) To fully comply with the contents stated in the decision on sanctioning of administrative violations that applies the expulsion sanction, unless otherwise prescribed in Clause 4, Article 10 of this Decree;”.
2. To amend and supplement Clause 4, Article 10 as follows:
“4. The execution of decisions on application of the expulsion sanction to foreigners who commit administrative violations as an additional sanction under Clause 2, Article 21 of the Law on Handling of Administrative Violations must comply with the provisions of Clauses 1, 2 and 3 of this Article. Where an administrative sanctioning decision imposes a monetary fine as the principal sanction and expulsion as the additional sanction, the procedures for organizing the enforcement of the administrative sanctioning decision shall be carried out in accordance with the Law on Handling of Administrative Violations and the decree detailing the implementation of the Law on Handling of Administrative Violations. Where coercive enforcement procedures are carried out in accordance with regulations but the violator has no assets or lacks financial capacity to comply with the monetary fine imposed in the sanctioning decision, and where the requirements of safeguarding national security and maintaining social order and safety must be met, the expulsion sanction may be enforced immediately and coercive enforcement shall terminate upon completion of the expulsion sanction.”.
Article 67. Amending and supplementing Article 34 of the Government’s Decree No. 162/2018/ND-CP dated November 30, 2018, prescribing sanctions for administrative violations of regulations on civil aviation (amended and supplemented under the Government’s Decree No. 123/2021/ND-CP dated December 28, 2021)
“Article 34. Competence of the People’s Public Security Forces
1. People’s Public Security officers while performing official duties shall be vested the right to:
a) Issue warnings;
b) Impose fines up to VND 10,000,000;
c) Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations, the value of which shall not exceed twice the fine prescribed at Point b of this Clause.
2. Heads of company-level mobile police units are vested the right to:
a) Issue warnings;
b) Impose fines up to VND 20,000,000;
c) Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations, the value of which shall not exceed twice the fine prescribed at Point b of this Clause;
d) Apply the remedial measures prescribed at Points c and dd, Clause 3, Article 4 of this Decree.
3. Chiefs of Police Stations, Heads of battalion-level Mobile Police units, Heads of stations, Heads of teams are vested the right to:
a) Issue warnings;
b) Impose fines up to VND 30,000,000;
c) Deprive of the right to use a permit or practising certificate for a definite period of time or suspend operations for a definite period of time;
d) Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations, the value of which shall not exceed twice the fine prescribed at Point b of this Clause;
dd) Apply the remedial measures prescribed at Points c and dd, Clause 3, Article 4 of this Decree.
4. Chiefs of commune-level Police Stations are vested the right to:
a) Issue warnings;
b) Impose fines up to VND 50,000,000;
c) Deprive of the right to use a permit or practising certificate for a definite period of time or suspend operations for a definite period of time;
d) Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations;
dd) Apply the remedial measure prescribed in Clause 3, Article 4 of this Decree.
5. Chiefs of Border Gate Police Stations at International Airports; Heads of professional divisions under the Police Department of Social Order Administrative Management; Heads of professional divisions under the Traffic Police Department; Heads of professional divisions under the Fire and Rescue Police Department; Heads of professional divisions under the Department of Immigration; Heads of regiment-level Mobile Police units; Heads of Divisions under provincial-level Police Departments including: Heads of the Police Divisions for Administrative Management of Social Order, Heads of the Police Divisions for Investigation of Social Order-related Crimes, Heads of the Traffic Police Divisions, Heads of the Mobile Police Divisions, Heads of the Police Divisions for Investigation of Corruption, Economic, Smuggling, and Environmental Crimes, Heads of the Fire and Rescue Police Divisions are vested the right to:
a) Issue warnings;
b) Impose fines up to VND 80,000,000;
c) Deprive of the right to use a permit or practising certificate for a definite period of time or suspend operations for a definite period of time;
d) Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations;
dd) Apply the remedial measure prescribed in Clause 3, Article 4 of this Decree.
6. Heads of Immigration Divisions under provincial-level Police Departments have the competence to impose sanctions as prescribed in Clause 5 of this Article and are vested the right to decide to apply the sanction of expulsion.
7. Directors of provincial-level Police Departments are vested the right to:
a) Issue warnings;
b) Impose fines up to VND 100,000,000;
c) Deprive of the right to use a permit or practising certificate for a definite period of time or suspend operations for a definite period of time;
d) Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations;
dd) Impose the sanction of expulsion;
e) Apply the remedial measures prescribed in Clause 3, Article 4 of this Decree.
8. Director of the Police Department of Social Order Administrative Management, Director of the Police Department of Social Order-related Crime Investigation, Director of the Traffic Police Department, Director of the Fire and Rescue Police Department, Director of the Police Department of Environmental Crimes, Director of the Department of Homeland Security, Commander of the Mobile Police Command are vested the right to:
a) Issue warnings;
b) Impose fines up to VND 100,000,000;
c) Deprive of the right to use a permit or practising certificate for a definite period of time or suspend operations for a definite period of time;
d) Confiscate object evidence of the administrative violations;
dd) Apply the remedial measure prescribed in Clause 3, Article 4 of this Decree.
9. The Director of the Immigration Department has the competence to impose sanctions as prescribed in Clause 8 of this Article and is vested the right to decide to apply the sanction of expulsion.
10. The People’s Public Security Forces are vested the right to impose sanctions on the following administrative violations of regulations on civil aviation:
a) Administrative violations detected during the process of implementation of emergency response plans;
b) Administrative violations of regulations on civil aviation regarding security, public order, and social safety at public areas in airports and airfields, or transferred by civil aviation authorities;
c) Violations prescribed in Article 25, Article 26 and Article 27 of this Decree.”.
Article 68. Amending and supplementing a number of articles of the Government’s Decree No. 189/2025/ND-CP dated July 01, 2025, detailing the Law on Handling of Administrative Violations regarding the competence to impose sanctions on administrative violations
1. To amend and supplement the first paragraph of Clause 5, Article 8 as follows:
“5. Chiefs of Border Gate Police Stations at International Airports; Heads of professional divisions under the Department of Homeland Security, including: Head of the General Advisory Division, Head of the Catholic Security Division, Head of the Division for Security of Other Religions, Head of the Ethnic Minority Security Division, Head of the Anti-Reactionary Division, Head of the Counter-Terrorism Division, Head of the Social Security Division; Heads of professional divisions under the Department of Internal Political Security, including: Head of the Division for Internal Protection of Central-level Party Agencies and State Authorities, Head of the Division for Security of Judiciary, Legislative, and Central-level Socio-Political Organizations, Head of the Press and Publication Security Division, Head of the Health and Education Security Division, Head of the Culture, Sports, and Social Affairs Security Division, Head of the Posts, Telecommunications, and Information Technology Security Division, Head of the Division for State Management of State Secrets Protection; Heads of professional divisions under the Department of Economic Security, including: Head of the Industry and Trade Security Division, Head of the Monetary Security Division, Head of the Transport and Construction Security Division, Head of the Finance and Investment Security Division, Head of the Agriculture, Forestry, and Fishery Security Division, Head of the Science, Technology, and Resources and Environment Security Division; Heads of professional divisions under the Counter-Narcotics Police Department, including: Head of the Division for Prevention and Investigation of Crimes related to Illegal Trading and Transportation of Narcotics, Head of the Division for Prevention and Investigation of Crimes related to Organizing or Harboring Illegal Use of Narcotics, Head of the Division for Prevention and Investigation of Crimes related to Illegal Production of Narcotics, Head of the Division for Prevention and Investigation of Crimes in Legal Drug-related Activities; Heads of professional divisions under the Police Department for Administrative Management of Social Order, including: Head of the Division for Guidance and Management of Weaponry, Explosives, tactical gear, and Pyrotechnics, Head of the Division for Guidance and Management of Business Lines with Security and Public Order Conditions, and Seals, Director of the National Center for Residents Data; Heads of professional divisions under the Traffic Police Department, including: Head of the Division for Guidance on Communications, Investigation, and Handling of Traffic Accidents, Head of the Division for Guidance, Registration, and Inspection of Vehicles, Head of the Division for Guidance, Training, Testing, and Management of Driving Licenses, Head of the Division for Guidance on Patrol and Control of Road and Railway Traffic, Head of the Division for Guidance on Traffic Control and Escort, Head of the Division for Guidance on Patrol, Control, and Crime Prevention on Inland Waterways, Commanders of Waterway Police Squadrons; Heads of professional divisions under the Fire and Rescue Police Department, including: Head of the Fire Prevention Division, Head of the Fire Safety Assessment and Approval Division, Head of the Division for Firefighting, Rescue and Salvage, Head of the Division for Science and Technology Management and Inspection of Equipment for Fire Prevention, Firefighting, Rescue and Salvage; Heads of professional divisions under the Department of Cybersecurity and High-Tech Crimes, including: Head of the Division for Prevention and Control of Crimes using Cyberspace to undermine Economic Management Order, Head of the Division for Prevention and Control of Crimes using Cyberspace to undermine Social Order, Head of the Cyberinformation Security Division, Head of the Division for Protection of National Information Network System Security, Head of the Division for Cyberinformation Surveillance and Prevention of Activities using Cyberspace to undermine National Security; Heads of professional divisions under the Immigration Department, including: Head of the Division for Management of Entry, Exit, and Residence of Foreigners, Head of the Division for Management of Exit and Entry of Vietnamese Citizens, Director of the National Aviation Security Center; Heads of professional divisions under the National Data Center, including: Head of the General Advisory Division, Head of the Application Administration Division, Head of the Data Administration Division, Head of the System Security and Safety Division, Head of the IT System Administration and Operation Division, Head of the Data Center Infrastructure Administration and Operation Division; Heads of professional divisions under the Department of Criminal Records and Archives, including: Director of the Professional Information and Data Center of the Ministry of Public Security, Director of the Professional Information Reception and Processing Center, Head of the Informatics and Criminal Records Database Management Division; Heads of regiment-level Mobile Police units; Heads of Divisions under provincial-level Police Departments, including: Heads of the Homeland Security Divisions, Heads of the Internal Political Security Divisions, Heads of the Police Divisions for Administrative Management of Social Order, Head of the Police Divisions for Investigation of Social Order-related Crimes, Heads of the Police Divisions for Investigation of Corruption, Economic, Smuggling, and Environmental Crimes, Heads of the Police Divisions for Investigation of Drug-related Crimes, Heads of the Traffic Police Divisions, Heads of the Mobile Police Divisions, Heads of the Police Divisions for Execution of Criminal Judgments and Judicial Support, Heads of the Fire and Rescue Police Divisions, Heads of the Cybersecurity and High-Tech Crime Divisions, Heads of the Economic Security Divisions, Heads of the External Security Divisions, Head of the Divisions of Criminal Records and Archives, and Chiefs of the Offices of the provincial-level Investigation Police Agencies are vested the right to”.
2. To amend and supplement the first paragraph of Clause 8, Article 8 as follows:
“8. The Director of the Department of Internal Political Security, Chief of the Office of the Investigation Police Agency under the Ministry of Public Security, Director of the Economic Security Department, Director of the Police Department for Administrative Management of Social Order, Director of the Police Department of Social Order-related Crime Investigation, Director of the Police Department of Corruption, Smuggling and Economic Crime Investigation, Director of the Counter-Narcotics Police Department, Director of the Traffic Police Department, Director of the Fire and Rescue Police Department, Director of the Police Department of Environmental Crimes, Director of the Department of Cybersecurity and Hi-Tech Crimes, Director of the Department of Homeland Security, Director of the Police Department of Temporary Detention and Community-based Correction Management, Commander of the Mobile Police Command, Director of the National Data Center, and Director of the Department of Criminal Records and Archives are vested the right to:”.
Article 69. Effect
1. This Decree takes effect on December 15, 2025, unless otherwise prescribed in Clause 2 of this Article.
2. Article 14 of this Decree takes effect from January 01, 2026.
3. In case where legal documents incorporated by reference in this Decree are amended, supplemented, or superseded, their amendments, supplements, or superseders shall be applied accordingly.
4. This Decree replaces the Government’s Decree No. 144/2021/ND-CP dated December 31, 2021, providing penalties for administrative violations against regulations on security, social order and safety; prevention of social evils; fire prevention and fighting; rescue and salvage; domestic violence prevention and control.
5. To repeal Article 47 of the Government’s Decree No. 82/2020/ND-CP dated July 15, 2020, prescribing sanctions for administrative violations relating to judicial support; judicial administration; marriage and family; civil judgment execution; and bankruptcy of enterprises and cooperatives (which is amended and supplemented under the Government’s Decree No. 117/2024/ND-CP dated September 18, 2024).
Article 70. Transitional provisions
1. For administrative violations in the fields of security, public order and social safety; social vices prevention and combat; domestic violence prevention and control, that occurred and were completed before the effective date of this Decree, but are detected or under consideration for sanctions after this Decree has taken effect, the Government’s Decree prescribing sanctions for administrative violations and relevant legal normative documents in force at the time the violations were committed shall prevail.
2. For administrative violations in the fields of security, public order, and social safety; social vices prevention and combat; domestic violence prevention and control; and civil aviation that occurred before the effective date of this Decree but are still ongoing after this Decree has taken effect, this Decree shall prevail.
3. For decisions on sanctioning of administrative violations that have been issued or completely executed before the effective date of this Decree, against which the individuals or organizations subject to such sanctions still lodge complaints, the Law on Handling of Administrative Violations, the Government’s Decrees prescribing sanctions for administrative violations, and relevant legal normative documents effective at the time of issuance of such decisions shall prevail.
Article 71. Responsibilities for implementation
1. The Minister of Public Security shall guide, examine, push, and organize the implementation of this Decree.
2. Ministers, Heads of ministerial-level authorities, Heads of Government-attached authorities, Chairpersons of People’s Committees of provinces and centrally-run cities, and related organizations and individuals shall be responsible for implementing this Decree.