
DECISION
Approving the national strategy for development of digital economy and digital society through 2025, with orientations toward 2030[ Công Báo Nos 295-296 (14/4/2022)]

THE PRIME MINISTER
Pursuant to the June 19, 2015 Law on Organization of the Government; and the November 22, 2019 Law Amending and Supplementing a Number of Articles of the Law on Organization of the Government and Law on Organization of Local Administration;
Pursuant to the Political Bureau’s Resolution No. 52-NQ/TW of September 27, 2019, on a number of guidelines and policies on proactive participation in the Fourth Industrial Revolution;
Pursuant to the Government’s Resolution No. 50/NQ-CP of April 17, 2020, promulgating the Government’s Action Program to implement the Political Bureau’s Resolution No. 52-NQ/TW of September 27, 2019, on a number of guidelines and policies on proactive participation in the Fourth Industrial Revolution;
Pursuant to the National Assembly’s Resolution No. 16/2021/QH15 of July 27, 2021, on the 2021-2025 five-year socio-economic development plan;
Pursuant to the Government’s Resolution No. 50/NQ-CP of May 20, 2021, on the Government’s Action Program to implement the Resolution of the XIIIth National Party Congress;
Pursuant to the Government’s Resolution No. 99/NQ-CP of August 30, 2021, promulgating the Action Program of the Government of the 2021-2026 tenure to implement the National Assembly’s Resolution on the 2021-2025 five-year socio-economic development plan;
At the proposal of the Minister of Information and Communications,

DECIDES:
Article 1. To approve the national strategy for development of digital economy and digital society through 2025, with orientations toward 2030 (below referred to as the Strategy), with the following contents:
I. VIEWPOINTS
1. The current reality brings about an opportunity that Vietnam needs to quickly seize so as to take vigorous actions to develop digital economy and digital society, develop new business lines, seek new markets, and generate new jobs, thereby making breakthroughs to raise the national ranking. The task of developing digital economy and digital society has been highly prioritized in national development strategies.
2. Institutions, infrastructure facilities, human resources, the people and enterprises play an important role in the development of digital economy and digital society. Digital technology and digital data have been naturally integrated into all production and business activities of enterprises and the people’s daily life.
a/ Institutions facilitate the development of digital economy and digital society and play a decisive role in promoting innovation and guaranteeing the equal responsibility for law observance of domestic and foreign enterprises.
b/ Digital infrastructure facilities should be developed one step ahead at a fast pace in order to enable Vietnam to master core technology.
c/ Digital human resources, including experts and personnel engaged in digital technology and people who are trained in digital skills, play the decisive role in developing the national digital economy and digital society.
d/ To develop every citizen into a digital entrepreneur and every enterprise or production and business household into a digital enterprise that can apply digital technology in doing business in the network environment.
dd/ To restructure, optimize and increase the proportion and permeability of digital economy in the whole economy; to rapidly carry out digital transformation in all socio-economic sectors and fields, thereby developing new business models and opening up new growth spaces.
3. Settling conflicts arising in the development of digital economy and digital society
a/ Rapid and sustainable development: Models that have been proven effective in reality should be quickly multiplied for practical implementation. New models for which no explicit regulations are available may be implemented on a pilot basis and improved before multiplication.
b/ Comprehensive and focused development: To comprehensively develop foundation elements for digital economy and digital society and identify a number of key sectors and fields that require focused implementation.
c/ Innovation and protection of privacy and intellectual property rights: To ensure a harmonious balance between innovation and protection of privacy and intellectual property rights in conformity with international practice and development reality in Vietnam.
d/ Protection of national digital sovereignty and international integration: To develop digital economy and digital society in association with building and consolidating the national digital sovereignty; to proactively undertake the international integration, open the domestic market while ensuring balance in the development of domestic production, and attract investment resources in a selective manner in conformity with relevant national strategies; to involve experts from around the world in solving Vietnam’s problems.
dd/ Risk management in the course of transition to digital environment, safe development of digital economy and digital society: To protect the people and enterprises from dangers, risks and negative factors that are likely to cause hams to legitimate and lawful interests of the people and enterprises;  to attach importance to protecting children and disadvantaged people in the network environment.
II. VISION
To carry out digital development along with growth creation based on inputs being digital technology and digital data, making it become one of the new key development modes to facilitate Vietnam’s rapid, sustainable and inclusive development and adaptation and resilience to challenges in an ever-changing and unpredictable world.
The development of digital economy will make the people richer and help Vietnam surpass the lower-middle income level by 2025 and reach the upper-middle income level by 2030 and high income level by 2045.
The development of digital society will make the people happier and able to participate more comprehensively in social activities, and benefit more favorably from social security policies, thus making Vietnam a safe, humane and widespread digital country.
III. OBJECTIVES
1. Development of digital economy
Digital economy is an economic activity that uses digital technology and digital data as the main inputs, uses the digital environment as the main operating space, and uses information-telecommunications technology to improve labor productivity, renew business models and optimize the economic structure.
Digital economy includes: the information and communications technology (ICT) digital economy that covers the information technology industry and telecommunications services; the platform digital economy that covers economic activities of digital platforms, supply-demand connection online systems and online services in the network; and the sector-based digital economy that covers digital economy activities in all industries and sectors.
To develop the ICT digital economy that centers on enterprises and “Make in Vietnam” digital technology products in harmony with selective attraction of foreign direct investment (FDI) while increasing the export content.
To develop the platform digital economy that centers on national digital platforms as the driving force to boost the development of digital economy in industries and sectors.
To develop the sector-based digital economy that centers on the prioritized use of shared and unified digital platforms in different industries and sectors.
a/ Basic targets through 2025
- The proportion of digital economy will reach 20% of GDP;
- The proportion of digital economy in each industry or sector will reach at least 10%;
- The ratio of e-commerce to total retail sales will surpass 10%;
- The rate of enterprises using e-contract platforms will surpass 80%;
- The rate of small- and medium-sized enterprises using digital platforms will surpass 50%;
- The ratio of digital economy’s personnel to the labor force will surpass 2%.
b/ Basic targets through 2030
- The proportion of digital economy will reach 30% of GDP;
- The proportion of digital economy in each industry or sector will reach at least 20%;
- The ratio of e-commerce to total retail sales will surpass 20%;
- The rate of enterprises using e-contract platforms will reach 100%;
- The rate of small- and medium-sized enterprises using digital platforms will surpass 70%;
- The ratio of digital economy’s personnel to the labor force will surpass 3%.
2. Development of digital society
Digital society is a society that integrates digital technology in a natural and default manner into all aspects of life, enabling people to be connected, interact and master digital skills in order to use digital services, thereby forming new relations in the digital environment, and forming digital habits and digital culture.
Basic characteristics of digital society include digital citizens, digital connection and digital culture. Digital citizens are characterized by digital identities, digital media, digital skills and digital accounts. Digital connection is characterized by the people’s networking ability, including the rate of the people accessible to fiber-optic cable networks and broadband mobile networks and the rate of Internet users. Digital culture is characterized by the level of use of online public services, level of use of digital services in the network, and level of use of digital health and digital education services by the people.
Development of digital society must go hand in hand with creating cultural values suitable to the digital age, enabling the entire population to selectively access and absorb the world’s cultural values, and enriching the spiritual life of Vietnamese people.
To promote the creativity of the people in digital society and, at the same time, protect them from risks and threats in digital society.
a/ Basic targets through 2025
- The rate of the adult population possessing smartphones will reach 80%;
- The rate of the population aged 15 years or more who have payment transaction accounts at banks or other licensed organizations will reach 80%;
- The rate of the adult population having digital signatures or personal e-signatures will surpass 50%;
- The rate of the people of working age who are trained in basic digital skills will surpass 70%;
- The rate of households accessible to fiber-optic broadband Internet service will reach 80%;
- The rate of network-connected people who are protected at a basic level will surpass 70%;
- The proportion of the adult population using online public services will surpass 50%;
- The rate of the adult population using telemedicine and telehealth services will surpass 30%;
- The rate of the people having electronic health records will reach 90%;
- The rate of higher education institutions, colleges and vocational education institutions that complete the model of digital governance, digital operation, digital data standardization, and open digital learning resources’ stores will reach 80%;
- The rate of education institutions from primary schools to upper secondary schools that complete the model of digital governance, digital operation, digital data standardization, and open digital learning resources’ stores will reach 70%.
b/ Basic targets through 2030
- The rate of the adult population possessing smartphones will reach 95%;
- The rate of the population aged 15 years or more who have payment transaction accounts at banks or other licensed organizations will surpass 95%;
- The rate of the adult population having digital signatures or personal e-signatures will surpass 70%;
- The rate of the people of working age who are trained in basic digital skills will surpass 80%;
- The rate of households accessible to fiber-optic broadband Internet services will reach 100%;
- The rate of network-connected people who are protected at a basic level will surpass 80%.
- The rate of the adult population using online public services will surpass 70%;
- The rate of the adult population using telemedicine and telehealth services will surpass 50%;
- The rate of the people having electronic health records will surpass 95%;
- The rate of higher education institutions, colleges and vocational education institutions that complete the model of digital governance, digital operation, digital data standardization, and open digital learning resources’ stores will reach 100%;
- The rate of educational institutions from primary schools to upper secondary schools that complete the model of digital governance, digital operation, digital data standardization, and open digital learning resources’ stores will reach 95%.
IV. DEVELOPMENT OF THE FOUNDATION OF DIGITAL ECONOMY AND DIGITAL SOCIETY
1. Institutions
Improving institutions, policies and legal environment is a consistent task given the highest priority which shall be integrated into all tasks and solutions on development of digital economy and digital society. The breakthrough is to promulgate policies and regulations that promote the performance of more online activities that are cheaper, faster, easier and safer.
The key tasks include:
a/ To formulate, submit for promulgation, and organize the implementation of, the amended Law on E-Transactions and guiding documents so as to fully recognize the legality of electronic dossiers, data, documents and transactions; to form a clear legal framework for intermediary platforms in e-transactions so that e-transactions can bring about more benefits with lower costs and are carried out in a faster, easier and safer manner than traditional transactions.
b/ To formulate, amend and supplement mechanisms, policies and laws in each industry or sector to meet the requirements of digital economy and digital society development; to attach importance to formulating policies to increase the rate of online activities to at least 50% of total activities of each agency, organization, industry or sector.
c/ To formulate and submit to competent authorities for promulgation and organize the implementation of a regulatory sandbox for new digital services and new digital business models for which no clear regulations are available.
d/ To review, amend and supplement mechanisms, policies and laws against monopoly and merger and acquisition that affect fair competition in digital economy; to issue more regulations to prevent abuse by market-dominating enterprises; to supervise the law enforcement in adherence to the principles of fairness and equal responsibility before law for both Vietnamese enterprises and enterprises providing cross-border services into Vietnam.
dd/ To study and improve institutions and laws for digital economy and digital society; to issue regulations on the management and development of platform digital economy, operation of digital platforms, digital services and online transactions; to establish, promulgate and complete the system of standards and technical regulations serving the development of digital economy and digital society.
2. Infrastructure facilities
To develop complete infrastructure facilities, including digital infrastructure and essential infrastructure facilities, to serve digital economy and digital society. The breakthrough is to quickly universalize smartphones to every citizen, high-speed broadband fiber-optic Internet services to every household, and cloud computing service to every enterprise.
The key tasks include:
a/ To formulate and submit to the Prime Minister for approval, and organize the implementation of, the Strategy for digital infrastructure development, ensuring that fast digital infrastructure development will be prioritized to enable the country to master technologies.
b/ To formulate and submit to the Prime Minister for approval, and organize the implementation of, strategies and roadmaps for digitization and smartization of other essential infrastructure spheres to serve digital economy and digital society, including: postal infrastructure; transport infrastructure; electricity supply infrastructure; hydraulic-work and climate change response infrastructure; urban infrastructure; commercial, industrial and energy infrastructure; education and training infrastructure; science and technology infrastructure; health care infrastructure; and culture, sports and tourism infrastructure.
c/ To organize the implementation of the Action Plan to improve the competitiveness and develop logistics services of Vietnam through 2025 approved under the Prime Minister’s Decision No. 200/QD-TTg of February 14, 2017, and Decision No. 221/QD-TTg of February 22, 2021, toward stepping up the digital transformation in Vietnamese logistics enterprises and services.
d/ To promote the development of digital connection infrastructure facilities for the people; to accelerate the coverage of fiber-optic cable networks and broadband mobile service networks in all villages and residential areas nationwide; to rapidly increase the proportion of Internet users, especially in rural areas; to raise the capacity of network connection and quality of network services, ensure network coverage in areas where there is no or little broadband network connection; to develop digital address and digital map platforms in order to create soft infrastructure facilities for the development of digital economy and digital society.
3. Digital platforms
Digital platform is an information system serving online e-transactions that operates after the model of using digital technology to create a network environment allowing multiple participants to provide services to organizations and individuals; permits instant, simple, convenient, flexible and on-demand use; is easy for massive popularization; and does not require the participants to invest in, manage, operate and maintain. Digital platforms are “soft infrastructure” of the digital space, helping solve specific problems of the digital transformation, and create and store user data, so, the more users there are, the more abundant data are available, the cheaper costs are paid, and the greater value is created.
The breakthrough is to seize opportunities, develop and quickly universalize national digital platforms to serve specific needs of Vietnamese people on the basis of classifying and exploring the use needs of each industry, occupation or sector. Each national digital platform has a managing agency being a ministry, a government-attached agency, a provincial-level People’s Committee or an enterprise that shall assume the prime responsibility for coordinating, placing orders and collaborating with the Ministry of Information and Communications and a number of key enterprises in promoting development.
The key tasks include:
a/ To formulate and periodically review, adjust and supplement the List of national digital platforms prioritized for development; to formulate and implement the Program on promoting the development and use of national digital platforms; to step up the development of platforms capable of facilitating connectivity and association, creating a concerted strength, and bringing about efficiency, ensuring that they are neither overlapping nor unconnected.
b/ To formulate, and organize the implementation of, specific action plans on development of national digital platforms, including a plan of the Ministry of Information and Communications, plans of managing agencies, and plans of platform developers. Such a plan must specifically define the mechanism for action coordination between the managing agency and the Ministry of Information and Communications, coordinating agencies and platform developers. Ministries, sectors and local authorities are encouraged to formulate their specific plans to promote the use of national digital platforms.
c/ To formulate and promulgate criteria on national digital platforms and organize the evaluation, recognition and announcement of national digital platforms that meet law-specified requirements; to organize surveys, collect information and data, and build and operate a digital platform portal in order to provide information about, promote development and support the use of Vietnamese digital platforms; to provide training in and instructions on the use of national digital platforms; to popularize and disseminate national digital platforms among agencies, organizations, enterprises and the people for them to know and use such platforms.
d/ To study and formulate mechanisms and policies to promote the development of national digital platforms, and identify shared-use national digital platforms in each industry, sector or locality.
4. Digital data
Data and data connection and sharing readiness form the important lifeblood of the digital economy and digital society. Data are non-consumable materials: the more they are shared, exploited and used, the higher value they create. The creation, classification and labeling of data, and the acceleration of completion of a legal corridor on data and data administration are decisive factors to facilitate the shift by state agencies, enterprises and the people from privately owning data to jointly creating, sharing and exploiting data.
The breakthrough is to develop master data in high-accuracy national databases into original data and specific open data of Vietnam for analysis, processing and labeling to serve the development of artificial intelligence.
The key tasks include:
a/ To formulate and submit to the Prime Minister for approval, and organize the implementation of, the National Data Strategy.
b/ To review and revise existing regulations and policies on data assets, data purchase and sale and data services or promulgate new ones so as to develop a healthy, safe and lawful data market.
c/ To review and revise regulations and policies on finance, charges and fees in data provision, connection and sharing between state agencies and organizations, enterprises and the people, thereby creating lawful revenue sources for data maintenance and development.
d/ To formulate, and organize the implementation of, action plans on development of data and data-related human resources in such key areas as agriculture, health, education and training, natural resources and environment, transport, labor, industry and trade, construction, and culture, sports and tourism; to ensure that data are created in compliance with a format that enables machine readability and easy sharing, exploitation and use.
dd/ To develop, and organize the implementation of, a national platform for data synthesis and analysis and centralized platforms for data synthesis and analysis in ministries, sectors and localities, ensuring interconnection and data opening and sharing in order to collect data resources in ministries, sectors and localities into a focal point for data processing and analysis, and create new values to serve the development of digital economy and digital society.
 5. Cyberinformation security and cyber security
To build the capacity to manage digital platforms, a safe and healthy digital environment, and trust for vigorously shifting from a real environment to a digital environment. The breakthrough is to universalize basic cyberinformation security services to the people and enterprises.
The key tasks include:
a/ To formulate and submit to the Prime Minister for approval, and organize the implementation of, the National Cyber Security Strategy, setting orientations for mastering technology, protecting the national digital sovereignty and prosperity in cyberspace, ensuring a safe and healthy digital environment, and developing the ecosystem of cyberinformation security products and services.
b/ To meet cyberinformation security requirements right from the stage of designing and development of digital infrastructure facilities and digital platforms; and to provide digital services with basic cyberinformation security guaranteed.
c/ To develop Vietnam’s ecosystem of cyberinformation security products; to evaluate and announce Vietnam’s cyberinformation security products and services that meet law-specified requirements and are prioritized for use.
d/ To develop platforms for and organize the universal provision of basic cyberinformation security services to help the people prevent and protect themselves against cyberinformation security dangers, risks and incidents.
dd/ To develop platforms for and organize the provision of professional cyberinformation security services to help organizations and enterprises apply the 4-layer protection model.
e/ To develop, and organize the implementation of, a credit ecosystem as an important indication, building trust of the people in the digital environment through credit evaluation and labeling for websites, portals, application software and other information systems that meet the cyberinformation security requirements.
g/ To organize remote digital signing with priority given to the universal use of personal digital signatures for the people in a simple, convenient and safe manner with signature use prices suitable to the people’s income.
h/ To build and develop a cyberinformation security insurance market in order to help enterprises and organizations recover their financial capacity in the event of cyberinformation security incidents.
i/ To formulate and submit to the competent authority for promulgation a decree on electronic identification and authentication; to develop an electronic identification and authentication system on the platform of the national population database, the database on citizen identity cards, and the national immigration database to serve as a platform for the national digital transformation.
k/ To guarantee and authenticate information on the platform of the national population database, ensuring connection to serve the confirmation of the level of guarantee and authentication of the people’s digital identities.
l/ To intensify the hi-tech crime prevention and combat in socio-economic activities.
6. Digital human resources
To develop digital human resources toward focusing on the development of digital technology human resources who can practice new skills related to cloud computing, artificial intelligence, big data, system architecture, software engineering, interface design and user experience, and cyberinformation security.
The breakthrough is that digital universities and students can attend online training courses and exams, use personalized digital learning resources, and be assisted by artificial intelligence.
The key tasks include:
a/ To review and revise regulations and policies to encourage the maximum increase in the duration and volume of online training courses, ensuring the minimum ratio of the duration and number of credits of online training to the total training duration; to recognize, and permit the conversion of, a number of information technology and digital technology diplomas and certificates issued by prestigious technology organizations and enterprises at home and abroad into academic credits of respective subjects in order to shorten the training duration.
b/ To formulate and approve, and organize the implementation of, a scheme on pilot application of the digital university model that provides training in such majors as information technology, computer science, electronics-telecommunications, automation, communication engineering, cyberinformation security, digital technology, and others; to promulgate a set of digital university criteria and special mechanisms applicable to higher education institutions that satisfy such criteria.
c/ To formulate, and organize the implementation of, a program on “learning from practice”, under which state agencies act as a bridge between universities, colleges, training institutions and enterprises so as to formulate programs on training of human resources to meet the practical demand and according to orders placed by enterprises; to organize short-term and regular internship programs in order to increase students’ chances of job acquaintance so that they can have better orientations for their future jobs, and to add technical resources to enterprises; to develop and organize digital platforms for connecting training institutions with enterprises in order to promote learning from practice, provide digital skills training and retraining for workers, and link the labor market supply and demand.
d/ To formulate, and organize the implementation of, a program on teaching and learning digital skills and STEM/STEAM education in primary schools and general education schools; to attach importance to coaching and training teachers and furnishing sufficient equipment, robotics and software; to encourage education institutions to coordinate with organizations and enterprises in providing digital skills training services, STEM/STEAM education and robotics services.
dd/ To build a network of e-library systems and open educational resources platforms; to formulate and implement on a pilot basis an open textbook program that facilitates students’ free online access to serve their learning and information search, improve accessibility to knowledge for disadvantaged persons in the society, and reduce annual printing costs.
e/ To develop and operate learning content management platforms and the shared-use national learning management platform for general education institutions at all levels; to develop and standardize digital learning resources, helping teachers spend more time interacting with students and improve the quality of lessons.
g/ To develop and operate a digital record filing platform throughout the course of learning and training and to serve lifelong learning of citizens.
h/ To sharply increase enrolment quotas for the majors of information technology, digital technology, technology 4.0 such as artificial intelligence, data science, big data, cloud computing, Internet of Things (IoT), virtual reality/augmented reality, blockchain, and three-dimensional printing. Higher education and postgraduate training institutions may additionally provide training in the majors on digital transformation, digital economy and digital society; to intensify the training of doctoral-degree lecturers and researchers in the majors of digital technology, digital transformation, digital economy and digital society.
i/ To prepare and annually publish a report on forecast demand of the human resources market and career future in the fields of information technology, electronics-telecommunications and cyberinformation security in Vietnam in order to devise appropriate training solutions; to update trends, and introduce some new occupations and jobs that require new skills.
7. Digital skills, digital citizens and digital culture
To develop digital skills, digital citizens and digital culture toward comprehensive digital universalization to form a fair and inclusive digital society, arouse the potential and pride of Vietnam and build the trust of the people in digital space.
The breakthrough of the universalization of digital skills and digital culture is to disseminate digital skills and digital culture through using national digital platforms and providing training in digital skills and digital culture via digital platforms.
The key tasks include:
a/ To develop and apply digital skills standards and the national digital skills framework in which it is necessary to identify necessary skills, level of satisfaction of skills requirements as suitable to each group of subjects; to establish and operate an online testing platform to evaluate and measure digital skills for different subjects such as workers, civil servants, public employees and students in conformity with national digital skills standards.
b/ To build a massive open online course (MOOC) platform on digital skills in conformity with national digital skills standards and the national digital skills framework, that allows the people’s access to learn digital skills by themselves, and wide popularization of digital skills to the workforce toward the universalization of digital skills.
c/ To organize programs to provide training in basic digital skills, advanced digital skills and technical skills for leading officials, technical staffs, information technology staffs, officers specialized in digital transformation, and civil servants, public employees and workers in state agencies, enterprises and production and business households; to provide training in digital skills standards for students of universities, colleges, vocational education institutions and general education schools.
d/ To implement programs to promote the development of digital citizens so that each adult citizen will have a digital identity, digital account and digital media, and be trained in digital skills; to step up the implementation of programs to support and universalize digital connection for the people; to encourage the people to use IoT devices for monitoring and supervision purposes to serve their life and production and business activities.
dd/ To organize the implementation of extensive digital culture development programs among the people from all walks of life; to mobilize, guide and encourage the people to access the Internet, register accounts and use digital services, particularly online public services, digital health services and digital education services, use social networks, practice online shopping and electronic payment, and exploit digital utilities and resources on the Internet; to provide the people with guidance on basic information security and confidentiality skills for protecting their own accounts and data in the digital space; to develop a platform for survey and collection of the people’s opinions, and an independent channel to collect and synthesize the people’s reported information and evaluations related to all economic and social life issues.
8. Digital enterprises
To develop digital enterprises, including digital technology enterprises, and transform traditional enterprises into digital ones. The breakthrough is to step up and accelerate digital transformation in enterprises based on digital platforms, thereby creating a digital enterprise ecosystem in all industries and sectors.
The key tasks include:
a/ To formulate and submit to the Prime Minister for approval, and organize the implementation of, the strategy for development of Vietnam’s digital technology industry through 2025, with a vision to 2030, in the direction of shifting from assembly and processing to producing “Make in Vietnam” products, thus creating a driving force to promote the development of digital economy.
b/ To step up the implementation of the Program on support for small- and medium-sized enterprises in digital transformation: developing and operating the Program’s portal; evaluating, selecting and announcing excellent digital platforms for digital transformation in enterprises; surveying and grouping enterprises by industry, sector and size; preparing materials on digital transformation training and instructions; organizing training courses on digital skills and digital transformation for enterprises; and launching communication campaigns for the Program.
c/ To formulate, and organize the implementation of, a program to boost digital transformation for large-sized enterprises and groups and state corporations; to evaluate, select and announce excellent digital platforms and digital solutions for digital transformation in large-sized enterprises; to bring into play the leading role of top enterprises in digital transformation, develop and multiply sectoral digital platforms, and create digital ecosystems in all industries and sectors.
d/ To formulate and implement a scheme to determine the index for evaluating the level of enterprise digital transformation to be applicable to enterprises nationwide. Evaluation results will serve as a measure of the effectiveness of programs and plans to support enterprises in digital transformation; to develop and operate an enterprise digital transformation index portal; to adopt incentive policies to encourage enterprises to increase their level of digital transformation.
dd/ To formulate and implement a program to develop a network of experts and units providing consultancy on digital economy and enterprise digital transformation (Consultants Network) with at least 1,000 consultants and 500 consultancy units that are certified by the Ministry of Information and Communications and regularly trained in up-to-date knowledge and skills and participate in joint activities to maintain and develop the network.
e/ To formulate and implement a program to support postal, delivery and logistics enterprises in digital transformation; a program to support retail stores in digital transformation; a program to support agricultural production households, cooperatives and individual production and business establishments in digital transformation and trading on e-commerce floors; to support and promote the development of the overall governance platform, service accounting platform, supply chain optimization platform, digital trading platform for agriculture, artificial intelligence platform, virtual assistant platform, and IoT device platform of Vietnam.
9. Digital payment
To develop digital payment toward universalizing financial inclusion and promoting cashless payment. The key tasks include:
a/ To formulate and submit to the Government for promulgation a Government’s decree on a regulatory sandbox for financial technology activities in the banking sector.
b/ To review and revise regulations and policies on finance, charges and fees in the direction of eliminating barriers to cashless payment, thereby encouraging the people to make cashless transactions.
c/ To organize the effective implementation of the National Financial Inclusion Strategy through 2025, with orientations toward 2030, approved under the Prime Minister’s Decision No. 149/QD-TTg of January 22, 2020.
d/ To organize the effective implementation of the Scheme on development of cashless payment in Vietnam in the 2021-2025 period approved under the Prime Minister’s Decision No. 1813/QD-TTg of October 28, 2021.
dd/ To implement the Program to promote Mobile-Money services, giving priority to regions and areas where banking services remain unpopular; to guide and organize the implementation of the Program to assist hospitals and schools in making of cashless payments and digital transformation in their operation governance.
e/ To innovate technologies and operations of the interbank payment systems in accordance with international practices; to upgrade and develop the electronic clearing payment system to meet requirements on number of transactions, particularly small-value micro-payment transactions expected to boom in the digital economy.
g/ To study and propose mechanisms and policies on cryptocurrencies based on blockchain technology.
h/ To develop and promulgate a system of standards and technical regulations on e-invoices in conformity with international practice and standards.
i/ To build a national e-invoice platform connected with all tax offices, allowing e-invoice payment and thereby shortening the time needed for e-transactions.
V. DEVELOPMENT OF DIGITAL ECONOMY AND DIGITAL SOCIETY IN INDUSTRIES AND SECTORS
To comprehensively develop digital economy and digital society in all industries and sectors, focusing on the following key industries and sectors:
1. Agriculture and rural areas
To develop digital economy and digital society toward linking digital agriculture with ecological agriculture, circular agriculture, modern rural areas, and professional and civilized farmers. The key tasks include:
a/ To formulate, and organize the implementation of, an action plan on development of digital economy and digital society in the field of agriculture and rural areas, shifting from agricultural production to agricultural digital economy; to mobilize and attract technology enterprises to invest in agriculture and rural development; to develop digital platforms meeting the needs of farmers; to provide seasonal insurance and risk prevention services to farmers.
b/ To develop and organize an agricultural digital data platform in which state agencies play a leading role, cooperatives and agricultural enterprises play a key role and farmers actively participate in collecting, standardizing and opening data and providing open data for agricultural production and sale of agricultural products; to promptly provide information, consultancy and forecasts to farmers.
c/ To develop and operate a digital platform connecting farmers with agricultural experts to collect and label data in the form of receiving community contributions, applying artificial intelligence to support the analysis and early detection of crop and livestock diseases so as to seek timely solutions.
d/ To develop and operate an agricultural product traceability platform that allows inspection of origin, production process and quality standards of agricultural products.
dd/ To establish and update the sets of national criteria on new-style countryside and national criteria on hunger elimination and poverty reduction, particularly for ethnic minority and mountainous areas where criteria on digital government, digital economy and digital society development are available; to organize the application of the model of villages practicing digital transformation and communes practicing digital transformation, in which, the central task is to associate e-commerce development with the One Commune, One Product (OCOP) Program.
e/ To organize the universalization of digital skills among farmers through popularization and dissemination in the grassroots media and via farmers’ associations at all levels; to mobilize, guide and support farmers in digital transformation in the process of organizing agricultural production and participating in the development of digital economy and digital society; to provide training courses on digital skills to farmers via digital platforms and online training courses, and continuously develop digital skills and knowledge of farmers, with priority given to skills on the use and exploitation of electronic exchanges, electronic payment, and identification and prevention of phishing.
g/ To organize specialized training in digital agriculture at higher education and postgraduate training institutions in the sector of agriculture and rural development.
2. Health care
To develop digital economy and digital society toward applying digital health care throughout the network of medical examination and treatment establishments from central to commune level and to the people. The key tasks include:
a/ To review and revise regulations and policies on health care so that medical examination and treatment establishments have telehealth divisions and provide telehealth services; use electronic medical records and electronic prescriptions; apply cashless payment methods; and complete the system of standards and technical regulations serving digital health care.
b/ To formulate, and organize the implementation of, an action plan on development of digital economy and digital society in the health sector, encouraging large hospitals to concurrently operate as health-related digital technology enterprises; to mobilize and attract technology enterprises to invest in digital health care; to universalize health care and telehealth services.
c/ To develop and organize a telehealth platform connecting hospitals with hospitals, higher-level hospitals with lower-level hospitals, and from central-level to grassroots-level health establishments, helping reduce the load on health establishments, ensure timely medical examination and treatment, and save time and costs.
d/ To make and apply electronic medical records and gradually eliminate paper medical records, and apply cashless payment of hospital fees; to organize the national e-prescription management platform at all public and private health establishments nationwide; to develop smart health governance platforms based on digital technology, and integrate information and data to form a national health database.
dd/ To develop and operate a testing management platform nationwide. The test results in electronic medical records shall be mutually recognized among medical examination and treatment establishments.
e/ To develop and operate a vaccination management platform nationwide; to operate a grassroots health information management platform nationwide; to develop an epidemic surveillance platform for managing infectious and non-communicable diseases nationwide.
g/ To develop and operate a commune health station management platform applicable to all communes nationwide.
h/ To develop and operate a personal health record platform, ensuring that every citizen has one digital personal health record, in order to form a complete digital health care system from primary health care, preventive medicine to medical treatment; to regularly update electronic health records storing information about the people’s health status throughout their lives.
i/ To develop telemedicine platforms, connecting the people with medical doctors.
k/ To develop and operate a digital platform connecting medical experts to collect and label data in the form of receiving community contributions, applying artificial intelligence to support the analysis and diagnosis for proposing appropriate therapies; to develop a digital platform on food safety and a digital platform for health environment management.
l/ To organize specialized training in digital health care at higher education and postgraduate training institutions in the health sector.
3. Education and training
To develop digital economy and digital society so that education and training institutions can act as pioneers in applying digital technology and creating an environment for formation of the generation of digital citizens and digital entrepreneurs for the future. The key tasks include:
a/ To formulate, and organize the implementation of, an action plan on development of digital economy and digital society in the field of education and training; to promote and encourage large-sized education and training institutions and major universities to concurrently act as digital technology enterprises in the field of education and training; to launch and attract investment of technology enterprises in digital education and training.
b/ To build and operate an e-learning platform that connects and provides the entire online teaching-learning-examination services for students and teachers, proceeding to form a digital education development ecosystem, and ensuring quality of online exams.
c/ To find and apply products and services of educational technology enterprises (Edtech) in teaching activities; to formulate a mechanism for pilot provision of new breakthrough products and services to support quick and efficient training.
d/ To organize specialized training in digital education and training at higher education and postgraduate training institutions.
4. Labor, employment and social security
To develop digital economy and digital society toward speeding up the performance of e-transactions in the field of labor, employment and social security; to create and maintain a complete and updated database on employees and policy beneficiaries nationwide. The key tasks include:
a/ To formulate, and organize the implementation of, an action plan on development of digital economy and digital society in the fields of labor, employment and social security; to promote and encourage forms of e-transactions, e-certificates and e-certification; to make social security payments online or directly to beneficiaries, eliminating unnecessary intermediary steps.
b/ To develop and operate a digital data platform on labor, employment and social security in which state agencies play a leading role, employers play a key role, and employees and people actively participate in collecting, standardizing and opening data and providing  open data to serve analysis, forecast and disclosure of labor market information and implementation of social security policies; to develop an e-labor contract platform and encourage employees and employers to sign e-labor contracts; to develop, and organize the implementation of, electronic labor books for employees.
c/ To organize specialized training in digital transformation at higher education and postgraduate training institutions in the sector of labor, invalids and social affairs.
5. Trade, industry and energy
a/ Trade
To develop digital economy and digital society in trade toward streamlining and increasing the efficiency of supply chains, thus contributing to modernizing the business cycle and improving the competitiveness of enterprises, thereby promoting the development of the domestic market and export market. The key tasks include:
- To organize the implementation of the national overall plan on e-commerce development for the 2022-2025 period promulgated together with the Prime Minister’s Decision No. 645/QD-TTg of May 15, 2020;
- To manage and supervise operation of e-commerce platforms; to combat fraudulent and counterfeit goods and protect consumers in online e-commerce transactions; to build a healthy, competitive and sustainable e-commerce market;
- To formulate, and organize the implementation of, the Program on promotion of e-commerce in rural areas with development potential; convenient logistics infrastructure facilities, abundant agricultural products and unique handicraft products; to strengthen e-commerce links between regions and areas;
- To help local people put their products and services on e-commerce platforms, thus helping every citizen become an entrepreneur; to provide digital skills training courses for ethnic minority people, providing them with opportunities to access e-commerce in order to reduce poverty and narrow the income gap; to consider e-commerce a main measure to implement the national target program on socio-economic development in ethnic minority and mountainous areas in the 2021-2030 period, and the program on commerce development in mountainous, deep-lying, remote areas and islands in the 2022-2025 period;
- To develop an e-commerce platform via value chains, connecting large producers, small- and medium-sized distributors, wholesalers and retail channels, and e-commerce companies in supply chains;
- To intensify the use of e-commerce applications to support key export goods items, and promote sale of domestic goods and e-commerce development in localities;
- To step up the construction of infrastructure systems and services to support the development of e-commerce;
- To organize specialized training in e-commerce at higher education and postgraduate training institutions in the sector of industry and trade.
b/ Industry and energy
To develop digital economy and digital society in industry and energy toward establishing a proper environment for innovation, and enhance the strategic direction and flexibly exploit financial resources for digital transformation support activities. The key tasks include:
- To complete mechanisms and policies to facilitate the promotion of digital transformation in the industrial sector, particularly in processing and manufacturing enterprises after the model of smart factories for green and sustainable growth and suitable to the model of circular economy;
- To formulate and implement a mechanism for coordinating digital transformation support activities for industrial production enterprises; to organize the implementation of representative and feasible model digital transformation projects to lead the digital transformation and innovation movement of manufacturing enterprises;
- To develop and operate a digital platform connecting manufacturing enterprises with technology experts and professional solution providers to support enterprises in digital transformation; to strengthen business linkages after the advanced model of cooperation between manufacturing enterprises and domestic and international partners in order to create new values, share service networks and data and information resources;
- To set out statistical indicators and organize regular surveys to assess industrial enterprises’ readiness for being transformed into smart factories;
- To build and form centers/institutes for research into production technologies, focusing on digital transformation for source technologies and core technologies of the manufacturing and processing sector in order to improve the efficiency, productivity and quality of the processing and manufacturing sector, thus improving competitiveness of enterprises and industrial products produced by domestic enterprises;
- To develop, and organize the implementation of, an action plan on development of digital economy and digital society in the field of energy;
- To develop and implement the smart power grid development plan in Vietnam;
- To organize specialized training in smart production and digital transformation in the field of energy at higher education and postgraduate training institutions in the sector of industry and trade.
6. Tourism
To develop digital economy and digital society toward providing adequate information and online experience for tourists before and during their trips in real time. The key tasks include:
a/ To formulate, and organize the implementation of, the action plan for development of digital economy and digital society in the field of tourism in which every tourism enterprise is an enterprise applying digital technology; to launch and attract technology enterprises investing in tourism; to develop digital platforms for connecting tourism supply and demand.
b/ To develop and operate a tourism digital platform in which state agencies play a leading role, tourism enterprises play a key role and tourists actively participate in collecting, standardizing and opening data and providing open data for policy making, making business plans, optimizing and improving service quality, and providing incentive packages for tourists; to investigate, evaluate, classify and digitalize tourism resources, and regularly update information and digital data on tourist resorts, tourist attractions, tourism service facilities and tourism market in Vietnam.
c/ To develop and operate a tourism business and governance platform to serve the digital transformation for tourism enterprises, connecting domestic tourism product and service providers with distributors, online travel agents and major online travel exchanges, assisting tourism enterprises to perform connection and innovation in travel business and provide attractive travel packages for each segment of tourists; to develop a smart tourism ecosystem; to apply digital technology for connection in order to help and enhance tourists’ experience; to raise the capacity to provide services both in real and digital channels; to make full use of e-transactions in tourism activities; to apply modern technology for development of smart software and utilities to support the management and provision of services for tourists.
d/ To develop and operate a multi-dimensional model platform to serve the development of digital museums and digital tourism; to build a digital museum network for connecting and sharing knowledge resources from documents preserved at museums nationwide.
dd/ To organize specialized training in smart tourism and digital transformation in the field of tourism at higher education and postgraduate training institutions in the tourism sector.
7. Natural resources and environment
a/ To formulate, and organize the implementation of, an action plan on development of digital economy and digital society in the fields of natural resources and environment, develop green economy and circular economy, and use renewable, low-carbon and environmentally friendly energies.
b/ To develop and operate a digital infrastructure and digital data platform for the sector of natural resources and environment, giving priority to building a national land database and open national digital maps to provide and share data and information, provide new services and business models, efficiently exploit the digital ecosystem on natural resources and environment, thus contributing to providing digital platforms for the development of digital economy and digital society.
c/ To formulate and submit for promulgation, and organize the implementation of, an overall strategy for digital resources in the field of natural resources and environment through 2030, with orientations toward 2035, for use as a basis for the development of digital economy and digital society in the natural resources and environment sector.
d/ To organize specialized training in data science and digital transformation at higher education and postgraduate training institutions in the natural resources and environment sector.
8. Other sectors and fields
For finance, banking, insurance, post, transport, logistics, construction and real estate sectors, and manufacturing, service and other fields: To concentrate resources on the development of digital economy and digital society in each sector or field toward establishing an environment appropriate for innovation, strengthen the strategic direction and flexibly exploit financial resources for digital transformation support activities, thereby forming digital economy and digital society ecosystems in all sectors and fields. The key tasks include:
a/ To formulate, and organize the implementation of, action plans on development of digital economy and digital society in all sectors and fields, shifting from traditional production to sector-based digital economy, strongly performing digital transformation for enterprises and production and business facilities in all sectors and fields; to launch and attract investment of technology enterprises in all sectors and fields; to develop digital platforms to meet needs of enterprises and people.
b/ To develop and operate sector-based digital data platforms, in which state agencies play the leading role, enterprises and production and business facilities play the key role and the people actively participate in collecting, standardizing and opening data, and providing open data for production and business in sectors and fields; to promptly provide information, consultancy and forecast for enterprises and people.
c/ To develop and operate specialized digital platforms and governance and business platforms for every field in service of digital transformation for enterprises and production and business facilities in sectors; to make connection and linkage between enterprises and enterprises, between enterprises and the Government, and between domestic enterprises and foreign enterprises; to create an environment for the provision of new services and new business models, facilitating the efficient exploitation of a business ecosystem in the cyberspace.
d/ To organize training in specialized digital skills for workforces of all sectors and fields; to organize training in specialized digital technology and specialized digital transformation at higher education and postgraduate training institutions in all sectors or fields.
VI. SOLUTIONS
1. Organization and apparatus
a/ To efficiently organize the operation of the National Committee for Digital Transformation with the Prime Minister acting as its chairperson and the Ministry of Information and Communications acting as its standing body, for unified national coordination in the development of digital government, digital economy and digital society; to consolidate and  organize efficient operation of digital transformation steering committees of ministries, provinces and centrally run cities with their ministers or heads acting as chairpersons and units in charge of information technology/digital transformation (for ministries and central agencies) or provincial-level Departments of Information and Communications (for localities) acting as standing bodies.
b/ To set up community-based digital technology groups in every street quarter or village with members being part-time officers and on-spot members who are active, enthusiastic and trained in digital skills to disseminate, guide and assist local people in using digital technology and “Make in Vietnam” digital platforms, thereby forming a technology application network throughout the country.
c/ To review and revise functions and tasks of the Ministry of Information and Communications and ministries, sectors and localities in conformity with activities involved in the management, promotion of digital transformation, digital government, digital economy and digital society in Vietnam, ensuring synchronism, consistency and efficiency, and promoting the role of stakeholders in the development of digital economy and digital society.
d/ To organize and assign units being focal points to assume the prime responsibility for, and coordinate with the Ministry of Information and Communications in, implementing the Strategy.
2. Domestic cooperation
a/ The Ministry of Information and Communications shall cooperate with every related ministry or sector in setting up joint working groups, working out annual action coordination plans to implement and improve legal institutions and policies, and develop the national digital platform and digital human resources in every sector or field.
b/ State agencies shall cooperate with digital platform enterprises in researching and developing excellent and high-quality digital platforms.
c/ State agencies shall cooperate with digital platform enterprises in popularizing, disseminating and training in digital skills for people via digital platforms.
3. International cooperation
a/ To cooperate with foreign organizations and enterprises in attracting resources and knowledge, and transferring digital technology into Vietnam in conformity with the Strategy.
b/ To actively join in international organizations and initiatives on digital economy and digital society, build new international legal frameworks, standards and principles on digital technology in line with Vietnam’s goals and interests; to act as a responsible member in solving problems and addressing challenges related to digital connectivity, harmonization of standards, promotion of digital trade, improvement of digital capacity, narrowing digital gap, encouragement of business operations in the digital environment, and protecting consumers.
c/ To strictly and effectively implement international commitments, including those concerning digital economy and digital trade and especially in the building of the ASEAN Economic Community (AEC) and free trade agreements (FTA) to which Vietnam is a contracting party (ASEAN + 1, FTAs, RCEP, CPTPP, EVFTA).
4. Research and development
a/ To promote research, development and application of new digital technologies such as artificial intelligence, digital twin technology, blockchain, virtual/augmented reality and big data, together with other open technologies and open source codes in order to develop national digital platforms and sector-based digital platforms for the development of digital economy and digital society.
b/ To formulate and implement programs on research and application of new digital technologies in order to create Vietnam’s particular digital platforms, products and services, competitive advantages, and promote the development of digital economy and digital society.
c/ To seek for and adopt attractive policies to recruit leading experts in new digital technologies, core technologies and digital platforms at home and abroad to work in Vietnam for research, development and business investment; to strongly promote innovative startups in digital economy, particularly digital platform economy and online business nationwide.
d/ To review and revise regulations and policies to encourage enterprises to set aside a science and technology fund and use this fund to perform the task of digital transformation of enterprises; to loosen and simplify regulations on setting aside and spending of the science and technology fund for the purpose of digital transformation of enterprises.
dd/ To establish zones for research, development, testing, incubation and support of startups for development of digital economy: To support the testing of new business models, incubation and startup in digital economy; to establish digital transformation promotion centers in industrial parks and export processing zones; to apply on a pilot basis models of specialized technology enterprises in providing professional services in the fields of health care and education and training; to organize surveys and make a list of enterprises that have new business models based on digital technology application and development to remove obstacles and support development.
e/ To invest in research, building and transfer of new business models and sample models on digital transformation and digital economy; to build typical digital transformation enterprises, sample models and model applications on digital transformation suitable to characteristics of every sector, field or locality; to promote investment of leading enterprises and core enterprises in research and building of specialized digital platforms, support the transfer of supply chains to partners for shared application and connection to lead the digital transformation, thereby putting the industry chain to a new height; to carry out multi-sectoral coordination between leading enterprises, platform enterprises and financial technology enterprises in establishing digital transformation platforms and creating new ecosystems.
5. Public communication, dissemination and awareness raising
a/ To organize forums, conferences, seminars, domestic and international events and exhibitions on the development of digital economy and digital society in Vietnam and results of the implementation of the Strategy; to incorporate contents on digital economy and digital society in events and exhibitions on socio-economic development and introduction of Vietnam’s country, people, culture and tourism at home and abroad.
b/ To publicly communicate, disseminate and train in national digital platforms, typical models of digital economy and digital society in the mass media from the central to grassroots level; to develop channels to provide consultancy, questions and answers, and virtual assistance on digital economy and digital society, and assist people in improving their digital skills and using digital platforms, digital services and digital technology.
c/ To organize public communication campaigns, television contests and game shows with topics of digital economy and digital society in order to publicly communicate, disseminate and mobilize wide participation of the people; to organize contests to seek for typical models of digital business and digital economy as well as solutions to use digital technology in solving socio-economic problems.
d/ To establish Vietnam’s digital economy and digital society information portal to provide information on the implementation of the Strategy, publish related guidelines, policies and information and progress of the implementation of the Strategy, and integrate data on the development of digital economy and digital society in Vietnam; to develop a national database on the development of digital economy and digital society, with information and data collected from many different sources classified by topic for the purposes of storage, retrieval, export and update of information, allowing users to conveniently search and share information; to set up a forum to connect experts and scientists with individuals and organizations in order to utilize the power of knowledge for promoting the development of digital economy and digital society.
dd/ To organize contests to encourage ministries, sectors, localities, agencies, organizations and enterprises to come up with practical problems that need to be solved by digital technology and digital platforms, and digital solutions and digital platforms that can thoroughly solve such practical problems.
6. Measurement and monitoring of the implementation
a/ To regularly update digital economy and digital society indicators in conformity with their actual development, ensuring a unified system of statistical indicators to measure digital economy and digital society, including indicators at national, sectoral and local levels.
b/ To annually organize investigations and surveys to collect and announce results of making of statistics on and measurement of digital economic indicators and basic goals on digital economy and digital society set forth in the Strategy at the national and local levels.
c/ To promulgate a set of criteria for measurement of digital society, including measurement of the extent of the people’s participation in political and social activities in digital society, with detailed classification by gender and region; to annually organize surveys to collect and announce statistical and measurement results on digital society at the national and local levels.
7. Funding
a/ Funds for the implementation of the Strategy come from the state budget; investment by enterprises, the private sector, the community, and other lawful funding sources. Ministries, sectors and localities shall base themselves on their assigned tasks to use funding sources first of all for the performance of the digital economy and digital society development tasks and solutions set forth in the Strategy.
b/ To use first of all the state budget’s funds for the implementation of tasks, solutions and projects under the Strategy under the state agencies’ management; to ensure that the ratio of expenses for digital transformation and development of the digital economy and digital society to total state budget expenditures is higher than the average level of the world; to research, review and revise the index exclusively for digital transformation, and development of digital government, digital economy, and digital society in the state budget index system.
c/ The central budget shall allocate funds for the implementation of the Strategy’s tasks and projects assigned to in-charge ministries and central agencies, and for activities of directing and administering the implementation of the Strategy. Localities shall allocate funds for the implementation of the Strategy’s tasks and projects assigned to them, in which:
- Investment funds for the implementation of tasks and projects: investment in building of information systems, digital platforms, procurement of hardware, software, technology and equipment, and construction of physical and infrastructure facilities to serve the development of digital economy and digital society;
- Regular funds for the implementation of programs, plans and tasks: studying and developing institutions and policies; promoting the digital transformation and developing digital economy and digital society; organizing investigations, surveys, making of statistics, measurement and assessment of development indicators and impacts; hiring, purchasing, using and promoting the development of digital platforms; creating, updating, storing, sharing and using digital data; ensuring cyberinformation security; training, further training and developing digital human resources, digital skills, digital citizens and digital culture; providing digital transformation support and consultancy to enterprises; carrying out information and communication activities; maintaining and operating information systems and digital platforms; and other tasks set forth in the Strategy funded by recurrent expenditures; to encourage and prioritize the use of recurrent expenditures for hiring, purchasing and using digital platforms, digital services and information systems instead of construction investment.
d/ Enterprises, economic organizations, and education and training institutions shall allocate funds from their own budgets for performance of tasks and implementation of solutions assigned to them in the Strategy. Units have funding sources retained to them under regulations shall prioritize the use of such funding sources for the implementation of the Strategy in accordance with law.
8. Mitigating negative impacts of the development of digital economy and digital society 
a/ To assess impacts of the digital economy and digital society development at the national and local scales, focusing on assessing impacts of technology on all sectors and occupations and career prospects in order to come up with transformation plans in conformity with national and local development strategies; to prioritize the transformation for subjects affected by numerous impacts from the transformation and most likely to be replaced by machines; to implement solutions to reduce inequality, narrow gap and mitigate negative impacts of the development of digital economy and digital society.
b/ To assess impacts of digital technology on society in order to take solutions to mitigate adverse effects of digital technology; to develop centers to answer questions and support people affected and adversely impacted by digital technology; to intensify the application of artificial intelligence for the development of virtual assistants to provide assistance to the people at any time and in anywhere.
c/ To develop simple and user-friendly digital applications and platforms to help the people control their own activities and technology usage level; to apply artificial intelligence technology to the automatic control of accesses and blocking of malicious websites and Internet resources, toward a safe and healthy digital space for the people.
d/ To establish points for collection of damaged or expired information technology and electronics-telecommunications products, tech wastes and e-wastes; to intensify the application of appropriate treatment technologies, with a view to ensuring a green environment and protecting the people’s health.
Article 2. Organization of implementation
1. The Ministry of Information and Communications shall:
a/ Assume the prime responsibility for organizing the implementation of the Strategy; guide and urge ministries, sectors, provinces and centrally run cities to organize the implementation of the Strategy; assume the prime responsibility for promoting digital transformation, digital economy, digital society, national digital platforms and platform economy; and examine and supervise, and annually summarize and report on the implementation of the Strategy to the Prime Minister.
b/ In 2023, organize the preliminary review of the implementation of the Strategy, propose the formulation of goals and targets and revision of tasks and solutions (when necessary), and organize the review for evaluation of the implementation results in 2025.
c/ Assume the prime responsibility for, and coordinate with related ministries, sectors and organizations in, performing the tasks specified at Points a, c and dd, Clause 1, Section IV; Points a, b and d, Clause 2, Section IV; Points a, c, and d, Clause 3, Section IV; Points a, b and d, Clause 4, Section IV; Points a, b, c, d, dd, e, g and h, Clause 5, Section IV; Point b, Clause 6, Section IV; Points a, b, c, d and dd, Clause 7, Section IV; Points a, b, c, d, dd and e, Clause 8, Section IV; and Point dd, Clause 9, Section IV; and the solutions specified at Point a, Clause 1, Section VI; Point a, Clause 2, Section VI; Points c, dd and e, Clause 4, Section VI; Points a, b and d, Clause 5, Section VI; Point c, Clause 6, Section VI; and Point c, Clause 8, Section VI according to its assigned functions and tasks.
d/ Coordinate with the Ministry of Education and Training, Ministry of Labor, Invalids and Social Affairs, and related agencies and organizations in performing the tasks specified in Clauses 6 and 7, Section IV, and Clause 3, Section V according to its assigned functions and tasks.
dd/ Assume the prime responsibility for, and coordinate with related ministries, sectors, localities, organizations and enterprises in, preforming the tasks specified in Clause 3, Section IV of the Strategy; promulgate and periodically review, adjust, and supplement the List of national digital platforms prioritized for development; formulate the Program on promoting the development and use of national digital platforms; and coordinate in selecting key organizations and enterprises for development of national digital platforms and specialized digital platforms.
e/ Perform the tasks of the managing agency to support the development of national digital platforms with regard to cloud computing platforms; digital address platforms; data integration and sharing platforms; data synthesis and analysis platforms; new-generation virtual meeting platforms; platforms for massive open online courses (MOOCS); platforms for survey and opinion solicitation; artificial intelligence platforms; Internet of Things (IoT) device platforms; new-generation social network platforms; overall governance platforms; service accounting platforms; intelligent operation center (IOC) platforms; cyberinformation security operations center (SOC) platforms; virtual assistant platforms; and supply chain optimization platforms.
g/ Assume the prime responsibility for, and coordinate with the Ministry of National Defense, Ministry of Public Security, and related organizations and enterprises in, performing the tasks specified in Clause 5, Section IV according to its assigned functions and tasks.
h/ Organize the implementation of the tasks and solutions specified in the Appendix to this Decision and other tasks according to its assigned functions and tasks.
2. The Ministry of Planning and Investment shall:
a/ Summarize and allocate annual development investment funds in accordance with the Law on Public Investment, Law on the State Budget and relevant guiding documents for implementation of the Strategy.
b/ Coordinate with the Ministry of Information and Communications in performing the tasks specified at Point b, Clause 8, Section IV and the solutions specified at Points c, dd and e, Clause 4, Section VI according to its assigned functions and tasks.
c/ Assume the prime responsibility for performing the tasks specified at Points a and b, Clause 6, and Clause 7, Section VI; and implement the solutions and tasks specified in the Appendix to this Decision, and other contents of the Strategy according to its assigned functions and tasks.
3. The Ministry of Finance shall:
a/ Assume the prime responsibility for summarizing and allocating funds for annual recurrent expenditures in accordance with the Law on the State Budget and relevant documents for implementation of the Strategy.
b/ Implement the solutions specified at Point c, Clause 4, Section IV; Point h, Clause 5, Section IV; Points h and i, Clause 9, Section IV; Point d, Clause 4, Section VI; and Clause 7, Section VI; perform the tasks of the managing agency to support the development of national digital platforms with regard to e-invoicing platforms; and implement the solutions and tasks specified in the Appendix to this Decision and other contents of the Strategy according to its assigned functions and tasks.
4. The State Bank of Vietnam shall:
Assume the prime responsibility for, and coordinate with related ministries, sectors and organizations in performing the tasks specified at Points a, b, c, d, e and g, Clause 9, Section IV; and implement the solutions and tasks specified in the Appendix to this Decision, and other contents of the Strategy according to its assigned functions and tasks.
5. The Ministry of Labor, Invalids and Social Affairs shall:
a/ Coordinate with the Ministry of Information and Communications in performing the tasks specified at Point c, Clause 6, Section IV according to its assigned functions and tasks.
b/ Assume the prime responsibility for performing the tasks specified at Points a, dd, e, g and i, Clause 6, Section IV; and Points a, b and c, Clause 4, Section V; and implement the solutions specified at Points a and b, Clause 8, Section VI and provided in the Appendix this Decision according to its assigned functions and tasks.
6. The Ministry of Education and Training shall assume the prime responsibility for, and coordinate with the Ministry of Labor, Invalids and Social Affairs and training institutions in, performing the tasks specified at Points a, b, d, dd, e, g and h, Clause 6, Section IV; and Points a, b, c and d, Clause 3, Section V; coordinate with the Ministry of Information and Communications in performing the tasks specified at Point c, Clause 6, Section IV, and supporting the development of national digital platforms for digital university platforms; and implement the solutions and tasks specified in the Appendix to this Decision, and other contents of the Strategy according to its assigned functions and tasks.
7. The Ministry of Education and Training and Ministry of Labor, Invalids and Social Affairs shall direct and assign tasks to universities, colleges, and vocational education institutions to:
a/ Formulate training programs in conformity with the development of digital economy and digital society based on the Strategy’s contents.
b/ Study and include in their training programs disciplines, and new knowledge and skills to meet Vietnam’s demand for information technology and digital technology human resources in the next 5-10 years.
c/ Mobilize all existing resources associated with other programs and projects, and efficiently use the State’s invested capital for training of engineers, bachelors, and engineers and bachelors with practical skills in the fields of digital technology, digital economy and digital society.
d/ Increase the content of practice in training programs in the disciplines of digital technology, digital economy and digital society, include digital platforms and digital technologies, particularly Vietnam’s digital platforms, and open technologies in training programs to facilitate students’ practice and acquaintance with reality.
dd/ Actively and comprehensively implement digital transformation and participate in building and operating on a pilot basis digital universities.
e/ Assume the prime responsibility for, or coordinate with others in, performing the tasks specified at Points a, b, c, dd, g and h, Clause 6, Section IV; perform the tasks of the managing agency to support the development of national digital platforms for e-learning platforms; and implement the solutions and tasks specified in the Appendix to this Decision.
8. The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development shall assume the prime responsibility for performing the tasks specified at the points of Clause 1, Section V; perform the tasks of the managing agency to support the development of national digital platforms with regard to agricultural digital data platforms and farm produce traceability platforms; and implement the solutions and tasks specified in the Appendix to this Decision, and other contents of the Strategy according to its assigned functions and tasks.
9. The Ministry of Health shall assume the prime responsibility for performing the tasks specified at the points of Clause 2, Section V; perform the tasks of the managing agency to support the development of national digital platforms with regard to telehealth platforms, vaccination management platforms, electronic health record platforms, and commune-level health stations platforms; and implement the solutions and tasks specified in the Appendix to this Decision, and other contents of the Strategy according to its assigned functions and tasks.
10. The Ministry of Industry and Trade shall assume the prime responsibility for performing the tasks specified at Point d, Clause 1, Section IV; Point c, Clause 2, Section IV; and the points of Clause 5, Section V; coordinate in supporting the development of national digital platforms with regard to e-commerce exchange platforms; and implement the solutions and tasks specified in the Appendix to this Decision, and other contents of the Strategy according to its assigned functions and tasks.  
11. The Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism shall assume the prime responsibility for performing the tasks specified at the points of Clause 6, Section V; perform the tasks of the managing agency to support the development of national digital platforms with regard to digital museum platforms and tourism administration and business platforms; and implement the solutions and tasks specified in the Appendix to this Decision, and other contents of the Strategy according to its assigned functions and tasks.
12. The Ministry of Home Affairs shall assume the prime responsibility for implementing the solutions specified at Point c, Clause 1, Section VI; and implement the solutions and tasks specified in the Appendix to this Decision according to its assigned functions and tasks.
13. The Ministry of Science and Technology shall assume the prime responsibility for implementing the solutions specified at Points a, b, c, d and dd, Clause 4, Section VI; and implement the solutions and tasks specified in the Appendix to this Decision according to its assigned functions and tasks.
14. The Ministry of Public Security shall assume the prime responsibility for implementing the tasks and solutions specified at Point i, Clause 5, Section IV; perform the tasks of the managing agency to support the development of national digital platforms with regard to electronic identification and authentication platforms; and implement the solutions and tasks specified in the Appendix to this Decision, and other contents of the Strategy according to its assigned functions and tasks.
15. The Ministry of National Defense shall coordinate with the Ministry of Information and Communications and Ministry of Public Security in implementing tasks and solutions for building a safe and sound cyberspace, protecting national security and sovereignty in the cyberspace, and guaranteeing the rights and interests of enterprises, organizations and individuals engaged in digital economy and digital society activities.
16. The Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment shall assume the prime responsibility for performing the tasks specified at the points of Clause 7, Section V; perform the tasks of the managing agency to support the development of national digital platforms with regard to digital map platforms; and implement the solutions and tasks specified in the Appendix to this Decision, and other contents of the Strategy according to its functions and tasks.
17. The Commission for the Management of State Capital at Enterprises and agencies acting as representatives of state capital amounts at enterprises shall direct state enterprises falling under their management to implement the tasks and solutions stated in the Strategy to serve digital transformation, and development of digital economy and digital society, especially in key and essential sectors; important geographical areas in terms of national defense and security; and sectors in which enterprises of other economic sectors are not interested in making investment; urge and assign tasks to enterprises to proactively make investment in development of national and sectoral digital platforms; formulate action plans on development of digital economy within enterprises under their management toward vigorously promoting their digital transformation and development into digital enterprises leading the development of national and sectoral digital platforms and forming digital ecosystems in the fields and sectors of their operation.
18. Ministries, ministerial-level agencies, government-attached agencies, and provincial-level People’s Committees shall:
a/ Assume the prime responsibility for, and coordinate with one another in, implementing the tasks and solutions specified at Points b, c and d, Clause 1, Section IV; Points b and d, Clause 2, Section IV; Points b and d, Clause 3, Section IV; Points b, d and dd, Clause 4, Section IV; Points c, d and i, Clause 6, Section IV; Points c, d and dd, Clause 7, Section IV; Points b, c, d and e, Clause 8, Section IV; Points a, b, c and d, Clause 8, Section V; Points a, b, and d, Clause 1, Section VI; Points b and c, Clause 2, Section VI; the points of Clause 3, Section VI; Points a, b, dd, and e, Clause 4, Section VI; Points a and b, Clause 5, Section VI; Point b, Clause 6, Section VI; the points of Clause 7, Section VI; and Points a, b and d, Clause 8, Section VI; and implement the tasks and solutions specified in the Appendix to this Decision, and other tasks of the Strategy according to its assigned functions and tasks.
b/ Based on the Strategy’s contents, formulate and implement the 2022-2025 plan and annual plans on development of digital economy and digital society; supplement and update the Strategy’s contents and plans on development of digital economy and digital society, and synchronize them with socio-economic development master plans, plans and strategies of ministries, sectors and localities.
c/ Allocate funds (for development investment expenditures and recurrent expenditures) for implementation of tasks and projects on development of digital economy and digital society of ministries, sectors and localities. Provincial-level People’s Committees shall adopt solutions to prioritize funds for digital transformation, digital government, digital economy and digital society, ensuring that the ratio of expenditures for digital transformation, development of digital economy and digital society, e-government, and digital government to total state budget expenditures is higher than the world’s average level.
d/ Examine, evaluate, and send annual and unscheduled reports on, the implementation of the Strategy to the Ministry of Information and Communications for summarization and reporting to the Prime Minister.
19. The Vietnam Television, Voice of Vietnam, Vietnam News Agency, and communications and press agencies shall assume the prime responsibility for, and proactively coordinate with the Ministry of Information and Communications and ministries, sectors, and localities in, formulating and approving plans on organization of public communication about the Strategy’s contents for all sectors, authorities at all levels and people on a regular, daily and weekly basis; implement the solutions specified at Points b, c and dd, Clause 5, Section VI; perform the tasks of the managing agency to support the development of national digital platforms with regard to digital television platforms and digital radio platforms; and implement the solutions and tasks assigned in the Appendix to this Decision, and other contents of the Strategy according to its assigned functions and tasks.
20. The Ho Chi Minh Communist Youth Union is encouraged to direct its grassroots youth unions at all levels to assign their members to participate in the network in support of digital transformation to the commune level, which is coordinated by the Ministry of Information and Communications; proactively launch campaigns to encourage youth union members to carry out communication about and dissemination of digital skills, and support and guide people in using services in the digital environment.
21. The Vietnam General Confederation of Labor, Vietnam Farmers’ Union, and Vietnam Cooperative Alliance are encouraged to formulate their action plans and direct their member organizations to proactively participate in developing and applying digital technologies to serve digital economy and digital society.
22. The Vietnam Fatherland Front and socio-political organizations are encouraged to bring into play their role in disseminating, and mobilizing and supervising the implementation of, the Strategy. Socio-professional societies and associations shall take the initiative in providing advice and criticism on policies and laws; mobilize their members and enterprises to proactively master technologies and provide quality products and services; join hands with the Ministry of Information and Communications in carrying out information dissemination and communication, and conducting surveys about and evaluations of the level of digital transformation and development of digital economy and digital society in Vietnam; seeking and introducing national transformation platforms in the sectors and fields of their operation; proactively participate in providing input requirements to support the development of digital platforms; and encourage their member enterprises to connect with and use digital platforms in activities of societies and associations.
23. For digital technology enterprises and state enterprises 
a/ Telecommunications and post enterprises shall prioritize investment resources for building and upgrading digital and postal infrastructure facilities nationwide to meet the booming requirements for development of digital economy and digital society; and at the same time, join hands with the State in training and guiding people in using digital skills.
b/ Other state corporations and groups shall proactively participate in implementing the Strategy; bring into play their leading role in development and implementation of platforms and solutions for development of digital economy and digital society, form digital ecosystems, and promote digital transformation in the sectors and fields of their operation; be active and pioneer in making investment in national and sectoral digital platforms; mobilize and rally enterprises, especially small- and medium-sized enterprises in the field of digital technology, to participate in developing the ecosystems of products and services serving the development of digital economy and digital society.
c/ State enterprises shall pioneer in digital transformation and development of national and sectoral digital platforms; transform themselves into digital technology enterprises, and form the ecosystems of digital products and services around their core business sectors.
d/ Digital technology enterprises shall proactively develop digital platforms, participate in the Program on development of national digital platforms, settle problems concerning the development of digital economy and digital society; and develop ecosystems with attractive and healthy contents to form online habits for people.
dd/ Digital technology enterprises shall coordinate with focal-point agencies of ministries, sectors, and universities and colleges in formulating skill training programs for the disciplines of information technology, electronics-telecommunications, and cyberinformation security toward combining theories and practice; be ready for implementing the on-the-job training programs and receiving university and college students for internship and early acquaintance with enterprises.
e/ Digital technology enterprises shall coordinate with the Ministry of Information and Communications in performing the tasks specified at Points b, c, d and dd, Clause 5, Section IV; and implement other solutions, tasks and contents set forth in the Strategy related the sectors and fields of their operation.
Article 3. This Decision takes effect on the date of its signing.
Article 4. Ministers, heads of ministerial-level agencies, heads of government-attached agencies, and chairpersons of provincial-level People’s Committees shall implement this Decision.