
LAW
On the Press[ Công Báo No 40 (22/01/2026)]

Pursuant to the Constitution of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, which has a number of articles amended and supplemented under Resolution No. 203/2025/QH15;
The National Assembly promulgates the Law on the Press.

Chapter I
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Article 1. Scope of regulation
This Law provides citizens’ freedom of the press and freedom of speech in the press; organisation of the press and press activities; rights and obligations of agencies, organisations and individuals engaged in and related to press activities; and state management of the press.
Article 2. Interpretation of terms
In this Law, the terms below are construed as follows:
1. Press means information products on events and issues in natural and social life, that are expressed in text, speech, sound or images, created, published, distributed or transmitted to the general public through printed press, electronic press, radio and television. 
2. Printed press means a type of press using text and images, that is periodically published in printed forms for distribution to readers; printed press includes printed newspapers and printed magazines. 
3. Electronic press means a type of press using text, images, sound and graphics, that is transmitted in cyberspace; electronic press includes electronic newspapers and electronic magazines. 
4. Radio means a type of press using speech and sound, transmitted and broadcast on different technological infrastructure facilities and in cyberspace. 
5. Television means a type of press primarily using images combined with text, speech, sound and graphics, that is transmitted and broadcast on different technological infrastructure facilities and in cyberspace. 
6. Press activities mean activities of creating press works, press products and journalistic information products; providing information and giving feedback to the press; making corrections of information in the press; publishing, printing and distributing printed press; transmitting electronic press; transmitting and broadcasting radio and television; and publishing press products in cyberspace. 
7. Publishing press products in cyberspace means the posting and broadcasting of information on content channels of press agencies in cyberspace or the posting and broadcasting of information on the national digital press platform. 
8. Press products mean publications and supplements of printed press; complete journalistic contents of electronic press and of the national digital press platform; news agency bulletins; radio channels and television channels; specialised pages of electronic press; and content channels of press agencies in cyberspace. 
9. Supplement means pages added beyond the prescribed number of pages and published together with the principal issue of a printed press publication. 
10. News agency bulletin means a press product of the national news agency, expressed in text, speech, sound, images or graphics for conveying domestic and international current news or thematic information. 
11. Radio channel or television channel means a press product comprising radio programmes or television programmes arranged in a stable and continuous manner, transmitted and broadcast within a specified time frame and having identification signs. 
12. Specialised page of electronic press means a website providing information on a specific subject in conformity with the principles and purposes of the electronic press and having a sub-domain name of the domain name specified in the electronic press operation licence. 
13. Content channel of a press agency in cyberspace means an information channel established by a press agency on a social media platform for providing, transmitting, collecting, exchanging and sharing information and connecting the community of social media users, and having a unified identification sign when established on different social media platforms. 
14. National digital press platform means an information technology system designed to support and manage press activities, including also the publishing, distribution and management of journalistic contents. 
15. Magazine means a press product publishing specialised or sector-specific news and articles and professional exchanges and guidance in conformity with the principles and purposes stated in its license, and only updating news and events relating to activities and fields of operation of its managing body; magazines include printed magazines and electronic magazines. 
16. Scientific journal means a periodical press product for publishing scientific research results and information on specialised scientific activities. 
17. Radio programme or television programme means a collection of radio or television news and articles arranged according to a specific theme within a certain duration and having identification signs of its intros and outros. 
18. Journalistic genres mean forms of expression of press works, including news, photographs, commentaries, editorials, treatises, feature reports, news reports, reports, reflections, investigations, interviews, journalistic notes, research articles, talk shows, and other genres. 
19. Press work means the smallest constituent unit of a press product, having independent content and a complete structure, including news and articles expressed in text, sound and images. 
20. Journalistic information product means an information product expressed in journalistic genres and published in newsletters or special issues of agencies, organisations and enterprises. 
21. Newsletter means an journalistic information product periodically published to provide information on internal activities, professional guidance, research results, applications, and results of seminars and conferences of agencies, organisations and enterprises. 
22. Special issue means a journalistic information product published on a non-periodical basis according to events or themes. 
23. Reporter means a person working at a press agency who performs press activities and writes news and articles. 
24. Editor means a person working at a press agency who performs the editing and revision of the content of news and articles. 
25. Radio and television services means telecommunications application services for providing intact radio channels, television channels, radio programmes, television programmes, on-demand contents and value-added services from service providers to users. 
Article 3. Position, functions and tasks of the press
1. The press of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is revolutionary press, closely associated with the revolutionary cause of national liberation and the building and safeguarding of the socialist Vietnamese Fatherland, and operating in a professional, humane and modern manner. 
2. The press is an essential means of information for social life; press agencies are the mouthpieces of Party agencies, state agencies, the Vietnam Fatherland Front, socio-political organisations, socio-political-professional organisations, social organisations and socio-professional organisations, and are forums of the people. 
3. The press has the following functions and tasks: 
a/ To provide truthful and timely information on the situation of the country and the world in conformity with the interests of the country and the people;
b/ To conduct public communication and dissemination, and contribute to the building and safeguarding of guidelines and policies of the Party, policies and laws of the State, and achievements of the country and the world; to contribute to political stability, socio-economic development, improvement of the people’s intellectual standards, satisfaction of the people’s healthy cultural needs, protection and promotion of fine traditions of the nation, building and promotion of socialist democracy, strengthening of the great national unity bloc, and building and safeguarding of the socialist Vietnamese Fatherland; to conduct communication about policies, provide external information, and enhance the image and position of the country;
c/ To reflect and guide public opinion; to serve as a forum for the exercise of the people’s right to freedom of speech;
d/ To detect and commend good people, good deeds, new factors and advanced models; to combat violations of law and negative practices and waste in society;
dd/ To contribute to preserving the purity of, and developing, the Vietnamese language and the spoken and written languages of Vietnam’s ethnic minorities; to create favourable conditions for persons with disabilities in accessing press information;
e/ To expand mutual understanding among countries and nations, and participate in the common cause of the peoples in the world for peace, national independence, friendship, cooperation and sustainable development.
Article 4. Citizens’ right to freedom of the press
1. To create press works. 
2. To provide information to the press. 
3. To give feedback on information in the press. 
4. To request corrections in the press. 
5. To access journalistic information. 
6. To cooperate with press agencies in producing press products. 
7. To print and distribute printed press. 
Article 5. Citizens’ right to freedom of speech in the press
1. To express opinions on the situation of the country and the world. 
2. To contribute opinions on the formulation and implementation of guidelines and policies of the Party and policies and laws of the State. 
3. To give opinions, make recommendations, reflections, criticisms, complaints and denunciations in the press regarding Party organisations, state agencies, socio-political organisations, socio-political-professional organisations, social organisations, socio-professional organisations, and other organisations and individuals. 
Article 6. Responsibilities of press agencies regarding citizens’ right to freedom of the press and freedom of speech in the press
1. To publish and broadcast opinions, recommendations, reflections, criticisms, news, articles, photographs and other press works of citizens that are consistent with the principles and purposes of press agencies and do not contain the contents specified in Clauses 1 thru 11, Article 8 of this Law; in case of refusal to publish or broadcast them, to make replies and clearly state the reasons upon request. 
2. To reply or request competent agencies, organisations or persons to reply in the press, or to make written replies to recommendations, reflections, complaints and denunciations sent to press agencies. 
Article 7. Responsibilities of the State regarding citizens’ right to freedom of the press and freedom of speech in the press
1. The State shall create favourable conditions for citizens to exercise the right to freedom of the press and the right to freedom of speech in the press, and for the press to properly perform its role. 
2. The press and journalists shall operate within the framework of law and be protected by the State. No one may abuse the right to freedom of the press or the right to freedom of speech in the press to infringe upon the interests of the State or the lawful rights and interests of organisations and individuals. 
3. The press shall not be subject to censorship before printing, transmission, broadcasting or publishing in cyberspace.
Article 8. Prohibited acts
1. Posting or broadcasting information against the Socialist Republic of Vietnam with contents that: 
a/ Distort guidelines and policies of the Party and policies and laws of the State;
b/ Fabricate information, causing confusion among the people; defame or deny the people’s administration;
c/ Conduct psychological warfare.
2. Posting or broadcasting information with contents that: 
a/ Cause division among classes and strata of the people, between the people and the administration, the people’s armed forces, political organisations or socio-political organisations;
b/ Cause hatred or discrimination on the basis of gender; reflect stigma on the basis of sex, ethnicity, origin or social status; reflect stigma or discriminate against persons with disabilities or vulnerable persons; cause ethnic division or secession, or infringe upon the right to equality among Vietnamese ethnic communities;
c/ Discriminate on the basis of belief or religion; cause division between persons with beliefs or religions and persons without beliefs or religions, among persons of different beliefs or religions, or between religious followers and the people’s administration, political organisations or socio-political organisations; or insult beliefs or religions;
d/ Sabotage the implementation of the policy on international solidarity.
3. Posting or broadcasting information with contents inciting war against the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. 
4. Distorting history; denying revolutionary achievements; insulting the nation or national heroes. 
5. Providing information negatively affecting the position, prestige or image of Vietnam; causing harm to foreign relations or international cooperation between the Socialist Republic of Vietnam and other countries or partners. 
6. Disclosing information classified as state secrets, personal secrets, family secrets and other secrets as prescribed by law. 
7. Providing information advocating outdated customs or superstition; providing information about mysterious stories, causing confusion in society and adversely affecting social order and safety and public wellbeing; using language that distorts the Vietnamese language, leading to misunderstanding of propaganda contents. 
8. Inciting violence; propagating a depraved lifestyle; giving detailed descriptions of obscene acts or criminal acts; providing information inconsistent with Vietnamese fine customs and traditions. 
9. Providing false information, distorted information, defamatory information or information infringing upon the prestige of agencies or organisations, or the prestige, honour or dignity of individuals; attributing criminal offences before a court judgment is issued. 
10. Providing information adversely affecting the normal development of children. 
11. Printing, distributing, transmitting, broadcasting or publishing in cyberspace press products, press works or information contents in press works that have been suspended from distribution, recalled, confiscated, banned from circulation, removed or destroyed, or information contents that have been corrected by press agencies. 
12. Obstructing the printing, distribution, transmission, broadcasting or publishing in cyberspace of lawful press products or lawful journalistic information products to the public. 
13. Threatening life, intimidating, causing injury or causing harm to the health, or infringing upon the prestige, honour or dignity, of journalists or reporters; destroying or seizing means or documents; obstructing journalists or reporters from carrying out lawful professional activities. 
14. Posting or broadcasting on journalistic information products the information specified in Clauses 1 thru 11 of this Article. 
Article 9. The State’s policies on development of the press
1. To formulate strategies for development and management of the press system. 
2. To invest in development of the press, focusing on key and priority areas, including: 
a/ Professional training and further training of human resources, development of human resources for digital transformation in the press and management of press activities, scientific research and application of modern technologies for press agencies;
b/ The national digital press platform;
c/ Digital press data infrastructure;
d/ Digital tools for supervising press activities in cyberspace.
3. To assign tasks, commission, conduct bidding, and support transportation charges and publication, transmission and broadcasting expenses for the press to serve political tasks, tasks concerning national defence, security, cultural affairs and information dissemination tasks in emergency situations, external information activities, policy communication, and to serve adolescents, children, persons with hearing impairments, persons with visual impairments, ethnic minority people, people living in areas with extremely difficult socio-economic conditions, mountainous areas, border areas, island areas and other critical tasks as decided by the Prime Minister; to adopt tax incentive policies in accordance with law.
Article 10. State management of the press
1. The Government shall perform the unified state management of the press. 
2. The Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism shall be responsible before the Government for performing the state management of the press. 
3. Ministries and ministerial-level agencies shall, within the ambit of their tasks and powers, coordinate with the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism in performing the state management of the press. 
4. Provincial-level People’s Committees shall perform the state management of the press with respect to local press agencies, resident offices, representative offices, resident correspondents in their localities, and other activities as prescribed by this Law. 
Article 11. Contents of state management of the press
1. To formulate, direct and organise the implementation of strategies and plans for development of the press; to organise the formulation of plans for development of press agencies within the strategy for development and management of the press system. 
2. To promulgate, and organise the implementation of, legal documents on the press; to formulate mechanisms and policies on the press. 
3. To organise the provision of information to the press; to manage information provided by the press. 
4. To provide training and further training to improve political qualifications, professional skills, professional ethics and technological skills for persons engaged in press activities of press agencies and press management officials. 
5. To organise the management of scientific and technological activities in the field of press. 
6. To issue and revoke licenses in the field of press, and press cards. 
7. To manage international cooperation in the field of press, activities of Vietnamese press agencies relating to foreign countries, and activities of foreign press agencies in Vietnam. 
8. To check deposited copies of press products, newsletters and special issues; to manage the national press deposit system. 
9. To direct and implement the information, reporting and statistical regimes and commendation and disciplinary work in press activities. 
10. To conduct inspection and examination and handle violations of the law on the press. 
Article 12. The Vietnam Journalists’ Association
1. To protect the lawful rights and interests of its members and of persons engaged in press activities. 
2. To promulgate, and organise the implementation of, regulations on professional ethics of persons engaged in press activities. 
3. To conclude on violations of professional ethics committed by persons engaged in press activities; to handle violations of professional ethics committed by members; to recommend competent authorities to handle violations of professional ethics committed by persons engaged in press activities who are not members. 
4. To provide further training on professional ethics and journalistic skills for persons engaged in press activities. 
5. To organise journalism awards in order to honour authors and groups of authors having high-quality press works with positive social impacts.

Chapter II
ORGANISATION OF THE PRESS
Section 1
PRESS MANAGING BODIES
Article 13. Press managing bodies
A press managing body is an agency or organisation that undersigns the application  for a press operation licence, establishes and directly manages a press agency.
Article 14. Powers and duties of press managing bodies
1. A press managing body has the following powers: 
a/ To propose the type of the press, principles and purposes, target audience, and language used for each type of the press and each type of press product; to determine the tasks and operational orientations of the press agency;
b/ To appoint and reappoint the head and deputy heads of the press agency, and assign a person to perform the duties of the head of the press agency after obtaining written consent from the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism;
c/ To discipline, suspend from office, accept resignation of, or relieve from duty the head, deputy heads, or person assigned to perform the duties of the head of the press agency, and send notification thereof to the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism;
d/ To inspect and examine activities of the press agency, and implement commendation and disciplinary measures in accordance with law.
2. A press managing body has the following tasks: 
a/ To direct the press agency to operate in accordance with its principles and purposes, tasks and operational orientations; to organise personnel; to take responsibility for activities of the press agency;
b/ To ensure conditions regarding personnel, physical facilities and finances for the press agency to operate in accordance with the press operation licence;
c/ To settle complaints, denunciations, recommendations and feedback relating to the press agency and individuals working at the press agency under its management in accordance with law;
d/ To settle issues relating to finances, assets, labour, insurance, tax liability and other matters in order to terminate operation of the press agency when its press operation licence is revoked or when the press agency terminates operation;
dd/ To provide training and further training, and direct the press agency to provide training and further training in professional qualifications and skills and professional ethics for persons working at its subordinate press agency.
3. The head of a press managing body may not concurrently hold a leadership position in a press agency, except the case specified in Clause 4, Article 26 of this Law, and shall take responsibility before law, within the ambit of his/her tasks and powers, for violations committed by the subordinate press agency.
Section 2
PRESS AGENCIES
Article 15. Press agencies
1. A press agency operates in one or several type(s) of press, has one or several press product(s), and may have subordinate press agencies in accordance with 
this Law. 
2. Press agencies may operate only after obtaining a press operation licence issued by the state management agency in charge of the press. 
3. Press agencies have the legal person status and their own seals and bank accounts in accordance with law. 
4. Press agencies must operate in accordance with the principles and purposes stated in their press operation licences and assigned tasks. 
5. Key multi-media press agencies operate in multiple types of press and have multiple subordinate press agencies; apply specific financial mechanisms; and are established in accordance with the Prime Minister-approved strategy for development and management of the press system. 
6. News and radio-television agencies under provincial and municipal Party Committees operate in multiple types of press and have multiple press products. 
7. The Government shall provide in detail the specific financial mechanism applicable to each key multi-media press agency in conformity with its level of financial autonomy. 
Article 16. Scientific journal agencies
1. A scientific journal agency may publish multiple scientific journals and publicise scientific research outcomes and information on specialised scientific activities. 
2. Scientific journal agencies have the legal person status and their own seals and bank accounts in accordance with law. 
3. Scientific criteria applicable to scientific journals, editorial boards of scientific journals, procedures for reviewing scientific articles, and grading of scientific journals must comply with the law on science, technology and innovation. 
4. Persons working at scientific journal agencies under the press managing bodies specified in Clause 2, Article 17 of this Law are not eligible for consideration for issuance of press cards.
Article 17. Conditions for issuance of press operation licences
1. Party agencies, state agencies, the Vietnam Fatherland Front, socio-political organisations, socio-political-professional organisations, social organisations, socio-professional organisations, and religious organisations at provincial level or equivalent and higher level that operate lawfully in accordance with law may apply for press operation licences. 
2. Higher education institutions and science and technology organisations organised as academies or institutes, and hospitals classified at intensive professional-technical level or higher level may apply for press operation licences to establish scientific journal agencies. 
3. The agencies and organisations specified in Clauses 1 and 2 of this Article that fully satisfy the following conditions shall be issued press operation licences: 
a/ Having determined the type of the press; principles and purposes in conformity with the the functions and tasks of the press managing body; target audience; programmes, time frames, duration, and methods of transmission and broadcasting (for radio and television); domain name, server location, and connection service provider (for electronic press);
b/ Having an organisation and personnel plan to ensure operation of the press agency; having a person satisfying the criteria specified by this Law to hold the position of head of the press agency;
c/ Having the name and form of presentation of the name of the press agency; the name and form of presentation of the name of the press publication; the name and logo of the radio channel or television channel; and the name and form of presentation of the name of specialised pages of electronic press;
d/ Having a head office and physical and technical conditions; a financial plan; technical solutions for ensuring information security; for electronic press, having at least one “.vn” domain name registered in conformity with the press name and using a server system located in Vietnam; for radio and television, having a plan on lease or use of transmission and broadcasting infrastructure;
dd/ Being conformable with the Prime Minister-approved strategy for development and management of the press system.
4. In addition to the conditions specified in Clause 3 of this Article, social organisations and socio-professional organisations applying for press operation licences must also satisfy specific conditions on duration of operation, number of members, expected personnel, physical and technical conditions and financial conditions as prescribed by the Government. 
5. After being issued a press operation licence, the press managing body shall issue a decision on establishment of the press agency and make a public announcement in the mass media. 
Article 18. Press operation licences
1. Press operation licences shall be issued by the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism. 
Press agencies operating in additional types of press; publishing additional press publications or supplements; producing additional radio channels or television channels; opening specialised pages of electronic press; or editing foreign programme channels on pay radio and television services must satisfy the conditions prescribed by law and obtain press operation licences issued by the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism.
2. Local press agencies publishing additional press publications or supplements must obtain licenses issued by provincial-level People’s Committees. 
3. In case a press agency changes its head office location, email address, publication schedule, or Internet connection service provider, it must notify thereof to the state management agency in charge of the press within 5 days from the date of such change. 
4. In case a press agency wishes to change the contents stated in its press operation licence, except the case specified in Clause 3 of this Article, the press managing body or the press agency shall submit an application dossier and obtain approval from the state management agency in charge of the press. 
5. In case there is no longer any demand for press activities, the press managing body shall notify such to the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism in writing at least 30 days before the expected date of termination of operation for revocation of the press operation licence. 
6. The Government shall detail Clauses 1 and 2 of this Article. 
Dossiers and procedures for application for issuance, modification and supplementation of press operation licences shall be prescribed by the Minister of Culture, Sports and Tourism.
Article 19. Revocation of press operation licences
1. A press agency will have its press operation licence revoked in the following cases: 
a/ The press agency has been issued a press operation licence but does not operate;
b/ The press agency does not meet the conditions specified in Article 17 of this Law;
c/ The press agency commits an act specified in Article 8 of this Law, causing serious or more serious consequences, or commits administrative violations and is handled multiple times.
2. The Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism has the competence to revoke press operation licences specified in Clauses 1 and 2, Article 18 of this Law. 
3. Provincial-level People’s Committees have the competence to revoke press operation licences they have issued in the cases specified in Points a and c, Clause 1 of this Article. 
4. A press agency must terminate its operation upon having its press operation licence revoked. In case the press operation licence is revoked under Point a or b, Clause 1 of this Article, re-issuance of the press operation licence may only be considered after 6 months from the date the license revocation decision takes legal effect. In case the license is revoked under Point c, Clause 1 of this Article, re-issuance of the press operation licence may only be considered after 3 years from the date the licence revocation decision takes legal effect. 
5. The Government shall detail Clause 1 of this Article. 
Article 20. Operational models and revenue sources of press agencies
1. Press agencies shall operate as public non-business units or operate in accordance with the operational model of their managing bodies. 
2. Revenue sources of press agencies include: 
a/ Funds allocated by the press managing body;
b/ Revenue from sale of printed press products; sale of rights to read, listen to, or view press works and press products; advertising; exchange and trading of content copyright; and licensing exploitation and use of press works;
c/ Revenue from business, service and cooperation activities of press agencies and their subordinate units;
d/ Revenue from financial activities and capital contributions to enterprises (if any);
dd/ Revenue from provision of public non-business services assigned, commissioned or put for bidding by competent state agencies;
e/ Revenue from implementation of tasks, programmes, schemes and projects assigned or approved by competent authorities;
g/ Revenue collected from persons wishing to have their scientific research articles published in order to have funds to cover expenses for review, improvement, and enhancement of quality of these articles;
h/ Revenue from lawful donations and aid provided by domestic and foreign organisations and individuals (if any), and other lawful sources of revenue.
Article 21. Resident offices, representative offices and resident correspondents of Vietnamese press agencies
1. The establishment of resident offices, representative offices, and the assignment of domestic resident correspondents by press agencies are specified as follows: 
a/ Press agencies that are agencies of the Party Central Committee or agencies under the Government may establish their resident offices or representative offices in provinces and cities; in case no resident office or representative office has been established, they may assign resident correspondents to operate independently in provinces and cities as needed;
b/ Press agencies other than those specified in Point a of this Clause may establish their representative offices in provinces and cities; in case no representative office has been established, they may assign no more than 3 resident correspondents to operate independently in provinces and cities;
c/ Resident offices have the legal person status and shall perform their tasks and powers, recruit personnel, and apply financial mechanisms in accordance with regulations of the press agency.
Domestic representative offices of press agencies do not have the legal person status; personnel of representative offices shall be recruited, contracted and assigned by the press agency;
d/ At least 10 days before a resident office, representative office or resident correspondent commences operation, the press agency must notify thereof to the provincial-level People’s Committee of the locality where the resident office or the representative office is located or the resident correspondent is assigned to operate;
dd/ Conditions, operation, and dossiers of notification of establishment of resident offices and representative offices, and assignment of resident correspondents shall be prescribed by the Minister of Culture, Sports and Tourism.
2. Provincial-level People’s Committees shall inspect operating conditions of resident offices, representative offices and resident correspondents. In case these conditions are not satisfied, provincial-level People’s Committees shall issue a written notice to the press agencies to request the latter to terminate operation of resident offices, representative offices or resident correspondents and handle violations in accordance with law. 
3. The establishment of resident offices and representative offices, and the assignment of journalists to operate abroad by press agencies must comply with Article 24 of this Law. 
Article 22. Publishing of news agency bulletins
The national news agency shall, when wishing to publish, or cease the publishing of, news agency bulletins, send a written notice thereof to the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism.
Article 23. Affiliation in press activities
1. Press agencies may enter into affiliation in press activities with other press agencies, legal persons, and individuals having business registration appropriate to the field of affiliation in accordance with law. 
Heads of press agencies shall take responsibility for all affiliation activities in press activities in accordance with law.
2. Press agencies may enter into affiliation in activities concerning design, layout, printing, technology, advertising, distribution, and production of content, except content relating to political current affairs, national defence, security, and foreign affairs. 
3. Press agencies using public assets for affiliation in press activities shall comply with the law on management and use of public assets. 
4. The Government shall detail this Article.
Article 24. Cooperation activities of Vietnamese press agencies with foreign countries
1. Distributing, transmitting and broadcasting press products abroad; authorising organisations and individuals to re-print, transmit and broadcast Vietnamese press products abroad.
Press products distributed, transmitted and broadcast abroad must have the same content as that domestically distributed, transmitted or broadcast and do not have the content specified in Clauses 1 thru 11, Article 8 of this Law. 
2. Hiring foreign experts and collaborators.
3. Sending journalists abroad for press activities.
4. When establishing an overseas resident office or representative office, Vietnamese press agencies shall comply with the strategy on development and management of the press system, and notify in writing the establishment and list of personnel of the resident office or representative office to the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism at least 15 days prior to the date of establishment of the resident office or representative office.
5. Vietnamese press agencies carrying out cooperation activities with foreign countries shall comply with the regulations concerning the cooperation activities and manage personnel involved in the cooperation activities.
Article 25. Legal deposit of press publications and submission of press publications
1. Printed press agencies shall submit printed press publications and their digitalised copies for legal deposit to the state management agency of the press; and submit printed press publications and their digitised copies for storage at the National Library of Vietnam.
Online press agencies shall store posted or broadcast information content.
Radio and television agencies shall store all programmes transmitted and broadcast and information on the signal sources used for signal relay and rebroadcasting.
2. The Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism shall implement the electronic legal deposit for electronic press, radio and television, measure and announce data related to press activities according to the Government’s regulations.
3. The Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism shall examine the legal deposit of press publications. Provincial-level People’s Committees shall examine the legal deposit of press publications in their localities.
4. The Minister of Finance shall specify the regime of remuneration for persons who read, listen to or watch legally deposited press publications for the purpose of examination.
5. The Government shall detail Clauses 1 and 2 of this Article.
Article 26. Leaders of press agencies
1. Leaders of a press agency include the head of the press agency or the person assigned to perform the duties of the head of the press agency, and deputy head(s) of the press agency.
2. Leaders of press agencies must be Vietnamese citizens, have a permanent residence address in Vietnam, and meet the standards and conditions for appointment in accordance with law.
3. The leaders of a press agency may not concurrently hold a leadership position in another press agency, except the case specified in Clause 4 of this Article.
4. The leaders of a key multi-media press agency may concurrently hold a leadership position in one or more than one subordinate press agency.
5. The head of a press agency or the person assigned to perform the duties of the head of a press agency shall take responsibility before the press managing body and before law for all activities of the press agency within the ambit of his/her tasks and powers.
6. The deputy head of a press agency shall take responsibility before the press managing body, the head of the press agency or the person assigned to perform the duties of the head of the press agency, and before law for activities of the press agency within the ambit of his/her assigned tasks and powers.
7. The Government shall detail Clauses 1 and 2 of this Article.
Section 3
JOURNALISTS
Article 27. Rights and obligations of journalists
1. A journalist is a person who is issued a press card under Article 28 of this Law.
2. Journalists have the following rights:
a/ To carry out press activities in the territory of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam or in foreign countries in accordance with law and be protected by law in their professional activities;
b/ To exploit, be provided with, and use information in press activities in accordance with law;
c/ To come to agencies and organisations to carry out journalistic professional operations. When coming to organisations and agencies to work, journalists are only required to present their press cards. Agencies and organisations shall provide journalists with materials and documents not classified as state secrets, personal or family privacy and other secrets as prescribed by law;
d/ To carry out journalistic professional operations at public court hearings; to be arranged a separate area to carry out professional operations; to directly contact persons conducting and persons participating in the proceedings in order to obtain information and hold interviews in accordance with law;
dd/ To be provided with training and further training to improve their political level and journalistic skills;
e/ To refuse to take part in the unlawful compilation or presentation of press works.
3. Journalists have the following obligations:
a/ To provide truthful information on domestic and world affairs in conformity with the interests of the country and the people; to reflect opinions and legitimate aspirations of the people;
b/ To protect the Party’s guidelines and policies and the State’s policies and laws; to discover, disseminate and protect positive factors; to prevent and fight wrongful ideas and acts;
c/ To comply with regulations on professional ethics applicable to persons engaged in press activities;
d/ To refrain from abusing the position of journalists to cause harassment and commit illegal acts;
dd/ To correct and apologise in case of providing false information or information distorting, slandering or infringing upon reputation of organisations or agencies, or the reputation, honour and dignity of individuals;
e/ To be held responsible before law and heads of their press agencies for the content of their press works and for their violations of law.
4.  A person who has yet to be issued a press card shall, when carrying out journalistic professional activities, present the introduction letter issued by the press agency where he/she works, and exercise the rights and perform the obligations as a journalist.
The Minister of Culture, Sports and Tourism shall specify the form of the introduction letter specified in this Clause.
Article 28. Issuance, renewal and revocation of a press card
1. Persons eligible for consideration for issuance of press cards include:
a/ Leaders of press agencies and the national news agency;
b/ Heads and deputy heads of journalistic professional divisions (departments) of press agencies and the national news agency;
c/ Reporters and editors of press agencies and the national news agency;
d/ Cameramen, directors of radio or television programmes (excluding feature films) of state-owned units that are issued press operation licences in the fields of radio, television and documentary production;
dd/ Persons who have been issued press cards and are transferred to work as journalism lecturers at higher education institutions or full-time officers at journalists associations at all levels or directly perform the state management of the press.
2. Conditions and criteria for a person to be issued a press card:
a/ Being a Vietnamese citizen with a permanent residence address in Vietnam;
b/ Possessing a university or higher degree; or possessing a college or higher degree, for cameramen of press agencies with television production, ethnic minority people engaged in the production of printed press publications, or radio or television programmes, or specialised pages of electronic press agencies, or content channels of press agencies in cyberspace in ethnic minority languages;
c/ Having worked at the press card-applying press agency for at least 2 consecutive years, counted by the time of consideration for issuance of a press card, and having participated in training courses in journalism skills and journalists’ professional ethics, in case of issuance of a press card for the first time. For leaders of press agencies whose appointment has been agreed in writing by the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism, this condition shall not apply;
d/ Having the press card application certified by the press agency or the agency where he/she works.
3. The following persons are not eligible for consideration for issuance of a press card: 
a/ Persons other than those specified in Clause 1 of this Article;
b/ Persons who have breached regulations on professional ethics applicable to persons engaged in press activities and the time period of 12 months, counted from the date the Vietnam Journalists Association issues a conclusion on the violation till the time of consideration for issuance of a press card, has not yet expired;
c/ Persons who have been disciplined in the form of reprimand or a heavier form and the time period of 12 months, counted from the date of issuance of a disciplinary decision till the time of consideration for issuance of a press card, has not yet expired;
d/ Persons who are involved in legal cases pending the conclusion from a competent state agency;
dd/ Persons who have been convicted under legally effective court judgments or rulings and whose criminal records have not yet been expunged;
e/ Persons who have their press card revoked due to a violation of law and the time period of 12 months, counted from the date of issuance of a revocation decision till the time of consideration for issuance of a press card, has not yet expired.
4. The validity duration of a press card is 5 years and shall be stated in the card. When a press card expires, the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism shall consider renewing it.
5. A person who has been issued a press card will have his/her press card revoked in the following cases:
a/ Violating regulations on professional ethics applicable to persons engaged in press activities,  journalistic professional activities, or information in the press; or using his/her press card for improper purposes, resulting in serious consequences;
b/ Being prosecuted by a proceeding-conducting agency. In case a competent agency decides to terminate the investigation or the criminal case against such journalist or from the date a legally effective court judgment or ruling concludes that such journalist is not guilty or exempted from penal liability, the state management agency in charge of the press shall return the press card to that journalist;
c/ Being disciplined in the form of caution or a heavier form or having been disciplined twice in the form of reprimand within 2 years by a competent authority in accordance with law;
d/ Being required to return the press card but failing to do so within 30 days after being requested by the press agency.
6. The Government shall stipulate in detail cases of re-issuance, renewal and returning of press cards.
7. Dossiers and procedures for issuance, renewal, re-issuance and revocation of press cards, the competence for organisation, programmes and requirements of training classes of professional skills and professional ethics for persons engaged in press activities shall be specified by the Minister of Culture, Sports and Tourism.
Chapter III
PRESS ACTIVITIES
Section 1
PRESS ACTIVITIES IN CYBERSPACE
Article 29. Press activities in cyberspace
1. Press agencies’ press activities in cyberspace must comply with the law on the press, the law on cybersecurity, and regulations on the principles and purposes of press agencies, and be aligned with treaties to which the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is a contracting party.
2. In addition to publishing and broadcasting journalistic content, press agencies may provide integrated online services in the press according to the Government’s regulations.
3. The agency operating the national digital press platform shall ensure the integrity of information published and broadcast on the platform.
4. The Government shall stipulate in detail the national digital press platform and digital tools for supervising press activities in cyberspace.
Article 30. Responsibilities of press agencies when opening their content channels in cyberspace 
1. To be responsible for the content and copyright when publishing or broadcasting information on their content channels in cyberspace.
2. Not to be responsible for information content that is altered due to errors of social media platform operators.
3. To upload information to their content channels in cyberspace before or after editing or updating information in the press and store the content published in cyberspace on a server system in accordance with this Law’s provisions on legal deposit of electronic press.
4. To notify the state management agency in charge of the press when opening their content channels in cyberspace and carry out online connection with the legal deposit system of the state management agency in charge of the press to serve the measurement of information trends in cyberspace according to the Government’s regulations.

Section 2
INFORMATION IN THE PRESS
Article 31. Provision of information to the press
1. Agencies, organisations and competent persons shall, within the ambit of their respective tasks and powers, have the right and obligation to provide information to the press and take responsibility before law for the content of information they provide. Press agencies shall correctly and accurately use the content of information they are provided and clearly indicate the information sources.
2. Agencies, organisations and competent persons may refuse to provide information to the press in the following cases:
a/ Information on the list of state secrets, personal and family privacy, and other secrets as prescribed by law;
b/ Information about cases which are under investigation and have not yet been brought to trial, unless state administrative agencies or investigation agencies need to publish or broadcast in the press information that is useful for the investigation and the anti-crime work;
c/ Information about matters under inspection pending inspection conclusions;  matters concerning complaints or denunciations under settlement; disputes and conflicts between state agencies under settlement pending official conclusion of competent persons and, according to regulations, not yet permitted to be disclosed.
3. For cases which are under investigation and prosecution and have not yet been brought to trial, and cases and matters concerning negative practices or showing signs of law violation pending conclusions of competent state agencies, the press has the right to report on these cases and matters based on their own documentary sources and shall take responsibility before law for the content of the information.
4. Press agencies or journalists have the right and obligation not to disclose information about information providers, unless it is requested in writing by the chief procurator of a People’s Procuracy or the chief justice of a People’s Court of the provincial, equivalent or higher level, or the head of the investigation body under the Ministry of Public Security, or of a provincial-level Department of Public Security to serve the investigation, prosecution and trial.
Chief procurators of People’s Procuracies and chief justices of People’s Courts of the provincial, equivalent or higher level, the head of the investigation body under the Ministry of Public Security, and heads of investigation bodies of provincial-level Departments of Public Security shall organise the protection of information providers; law protection agencies shall coordinate with chief procurators of People’s Procuracies and chief justices of People’s Courts of the provincial, equivalent or higher level, the head of the investigating body under the Ministry of Public Security, and heads of investigation bodies of provincial-level Departments of Public Security in protecting information providers.
5. State administrative agencies shall appoint a spokesperson to speak and provide information to the press on a regular or irregular basis.
The Government shall stipulate in detail the speaking and provision of information to the press by state administrative agencies.
Article 32. Response to information in the press
1. Heads of press agencies have the right to request agencies, organisations or competent persons to respond to issues raised by organisations or citizens in the press. 
2. Heads of agencies or organisations shall inform press agencies of measures taken to settle opinions, petitions, criticisms, complaints or denunciations forwarded by the press agencies.
3. The Government shall detail this Article.
Article 33. Press interview
1. The interviewer shall inform the interviewee in advance of the purpose and requirements and questions of the interview. When it is necessary to conduct an in-person interview without prior notice, the consent of the interviewee shall be obtained.
2. After an interview, based on the information and documents provided by the interviewee, the interviewer has the right to express them in an appropriate form. The interviewer shall express the interviewee’s answers in a correct and truthful manner. The interviewee has the right to request review of his/her answers before they are published or broadcast. The press agency and the interviewer shall satisfy this request.
3. Journalists may not convert the opinions presented at conferences, seminars, meetings or talks they attended into interviews without the consent of the speakers.
4. Press agencies, interviewers and interviewees shall take responsibility for the content of information published or broadcast in the press.
Article 34. Corrections in the press
1. A press agency that publishes or broadcasts false, distorted or slanderous information, infringing upon the prestige of an agency or organisation, or the prestige, honour or dignity of an individual shall publish or broadcast a correction and an apology in its press and notify thereof to such agency, organisation or individual.
2. When there is a written conclusion from a competent state agency that the information published or broadcast by the press about a case or matter is false, distorted or slanderous, infringing upon the prestige of an agency or organisation, or the prestige, honour or dignity of an individual, the press agency shall publish or broadcast the content of that conclusion.
3. The press agency shall notify thereof to concerned press agencies, agencies, organisations and enterprises operating news aggregation websites with which it has signed agreements on use of news and articles for the latter to remove false information and make corrections and apologies under regulations.
4. The Government shall detail this Article.
Article 35. Removal of violating information, recall of printed press products
1. Depending on the nature and severity of a violation, the state management agency in charge of the press has the right to require a press agency to immediately remove information on press products containing unlawful content from electronic press, content channels of press agencies in cyberspace and the national digital press platform, or issue a decision on recall of printed press products.
2. The Government shall detail this Article.
Article 36. Information feedback
1. An agency, organisation or individual that has grounds to believe that a press agency publishes or broadcasts false, distorted or slanderous information, infringing upon its/his/her prestige, honour or dignity, or publishes or broadcasts misleading information, affecting its/his/her prestige, honour or dignity, may send a written feedback to the press agency, the press managing body and the state management agency in charge of the press, or initiate a lawsuit at court.
2. Press agencies shall publish or broadcast feedback opinions from agencies, organisations or individuals, except feedback opinions that are unlawful or infringing upon their prestige or the prestige, honour or dignity of authors of press works. In case of refusing to publish or broadcast a feedback opinion, the press agency shall notify in writing and clearly state the reason.
3. The Government shall detail this Article.
Article 37. Press conference
1. Vietnamese agencies, organisations or citizens, foreign representative missions and Vietnam-based foreign organisations have the right to hold press conferences to provide information to the press under the Government’s regulations.
2. State management agencies in charge of the press have the right to stop press conferences if detecting any sign of law violation or if the content of the press conferences has the information specified in Clauses 1 thru 10, Article 8 of this Law.
Article 38. Advertising in the press
The press may publish and broadcast advertisements. The publishing and broadcasting of advertisements in the press must comply with this Law and the law on advertising.
Article 39. Copyright in the field of press
1. Press agencies shall comply with the law on copyright and related rights upon publishing or broadcasting press works.
2. Agencies, organisations and individuals using press works of press agencies shall reach agreement with these press agencies in accordance with the law on intellectual property.
3. Press agencies and authors of press works using artificial intelligence systems to support press activities shall comply with the laws on intellectual property, artificial intelligence and professional ethics.
4. The Government shall prescribe in detail the responsibilities of press agencies in the use of artificial intelligence systems.
Article 40. Information to be shown in press products
1. Information to be shown in press products:
a/ Name of the press agency, name of the press managing body and head of the press agency, for printed press and electronic press;
b/ Theme song and logo, for radio and television;
c/ The word “magazine”, for magazines.
2. The Government shall detail Point a, Clause 1 of this Article.
Article 41. Protection of contents of radio programmes, television programmes and contents of electronic press
Radio, television and electronic press have the right to use technical measures to protect contents of radio programmes, television programmes and contents of electronic press.
Section 3
PRINTING, DISTRIBUTION AND PROVISION OF RADIO AND TELEVISION SERVICES
Article 42. Printing of press products
A printing establishment that has a permit to print newspapers and magazines as prescribed by the publication law shall perform the contracts signed with press agencies, ensuring the time of distribution.
Article 43. Distribution of press products
1. Press agencies may organise the distribution of press products or entrust the distribution to other organisations and individuals.
2. Press managing bodies, press agencies, organisations and individuals engaged in distribution of press products, and organisations permitted to import and export press products shall comply with competent state agencies’ decisions on recall of printed press products. Press agencies and distribution organisations whose press products are recalled shall bear all costs related to the recall.
3. The Minister of Science and Technology shall prescribe the maximum postal charge of the public-utility service of distribution of public-utility press products.
Article 44. Provision of foreign programme channels on pay radio and television services
1. A foreign television broadcaster that provides into Vietnam foreign radio or television programme channels with collection of content copyright royalty shall register the provision of the programme channels and fulfill its financial obligations towards the Vietnamese State through its authorised agents in Vietnam.
2. Conditions, dossier and procedures of application for a certificate of registration for provision of foreign radio or television programme channels on pay radio and television services shall be prescribed by the Government.
Article 45. Provision of radio and television services
1. Radio and television service providers shall guarantee the transmission, broadcasting and delivery of integral information contents of press agencies.
2. Free-to-air radio and television service providers shall guarantee the timing, amount of time, scope of broadcasting, and quality of transmission, broadcasting and delivery of radio channels and television channels serving essential political, information and public communication tasks of the country and localities.
3. Pay radio and television service providers must obtain a licence for service provision issued by the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Communications before commencing operation.
4. Principles for providing free-to-air radio and television broadcasting services and conditions, dossiers and procedures for issuance of certificates of registration for direct reception of foreign television signals from satellites and licenses for provision of pay radio and television service shall be prescribed by the Government.
Section 4
EXPORT AND IMPORT OF PRESS PRODUCTS AND PRESS ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COUNTRIES IN VIETNAM
Article 46. Export and import of press products
1. Press products lawfully published and broadcast in Vietnam may be exported abroad. The export may be conducted by press agencies or enterprises licensed for import-export business activities.
2. The import of printed press products shall be conducted through press agencies and establishments licensed to distribute imported press products.
3. Before importing printed press products, press agencies and establishments distributing imported press products shall register the list of imported printed press products with provincial-level People’s Committees of the localities where their head offices are located or where the border gates of importation are located.
4. Heads of press agencies and heads of establishments distributing imported press products shall check the contents of imported press products before distribution and take responsibility before law for the contents of the printed press products they import.
5. The Government shall detail this Article.
Article 47. Press activities of foreign press agencies, foreign representative missions and foreign organisations in Vietnam
1. All press activities and press-related activities of foreign news, printed press, electronic press, and radio and television agencies (below collectively referred to as foreign press agencies), diplomatic representative missions, consular offices, representative agencies of inter-governmental international organisations and other foreign agencies that are authorised to perform the consular function in Vietnam (below collectively referred to as foreign representative missions) and representative agencies of non-governmental organisations and other foreign organisations in Vietnam (below collectively referred to as foreign organisations) may only be conducted after obtaining the approval of Vietnamese competent agencies and must comply with Vietnam’s law.
2. The Government shall detail this Article.
Section 5
NEWSLETTERS AND SPECIAL ISSUES
Article 48. Publication of newsletters
1. Agencies, organisations, enterprises, foreign representative missions, and foreign organisations in Vietnam may publish newsletters to provide information on their internal activities, professional instructions, findings of research and application, and results of seminars and conferences.
2. The validity duration of a newsletter publication permit shall be specified in the permit but must not exceed 1 year from the date of issuance.
3. Agencies, organisations, enterprises, foreign representative missions, foreign organisations in Vietnam publishing newsletters shall comply with the regime of legal deposit as prescribed by the Minister of Culture, Sports and Tourism.
4. Newsletter publication permits of central agencies and organisations, foreign representative missions and foreign organisations in Vietnam shall be issued by the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism.
Newsletter publication permits of provincial or municipal agencies, organisations and enterprises shall be issued by provincial-level People’s Committees.
5. The Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism shall check legal-deposit newsletters of central agencies and organisations, foreign representative missions and foreign organisations in Vietnam. Provincial-level People’s Committees shall check legal-deposit newsletters of provincial or municipal agencies, organisations and enterprises.
6. Conditions, dossiers and procedures for application of newsletter publication permits shall be prescribed by the Minister of Culture, Sports and Tourism.
Article 49. Publication of special issues
1. Agencies, organisations, enterprises, foreign representative missions, and foreign organisations in Vietnam may publish special issues to provide information based on events or issues.
2. The validity duration of a special issue publication permit shall be specified in the permit but must not exceed 1 year from the date of issuance.
3. Agencies, organisations, enterprises, foreign representative missions, and foreign organisations in Vietnam publishing special issues shall comply with the regime of legal deposit as prescribed by the Minister of Culture, Sports and Tourism.
4. Special issue publication permits of central agencies and organisations, foreign representative missions and foreign organisations in Vietnam shall be issued by the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism.
Special issue publication permits of provincial or municipal agencies, organisations and enterprises shall be issued by provincial-level People’s Committees.
5. The Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism shall check legal-deposit special issues of central agencies and organisations, foreign representative missions and foreign organisations in Vietnam. Provincial-level People’s Committees shall check legal-deposit special issues of provincial or municipal agencies, organisations and enterprises.
6. Conditions, dossiers and procedures for application of special issue publication permits shall be prescribed by the Minister of Culture, Sports and Tourism. 
Chapter IV
IMPLEMENTATION PROVISIONS
Article 50. Effect
1. This Law takes effect on July 1, 2026, except Clauses 2 and 3 of this Article.
2. The provisions in Clause 4, Article 6 and Clause 4, Article 28 of this Law take effect on January 1, 2026.
3. The provision on the condition for first-time issuance of press cards requiring applicants to complete training in journalistic professional skills and professional ethics specified in Point c, Clause 2, Article 28 of this Law takes effect on January 1, 2027.
4. Press Law No. 103/2016/QH13, which has a number of articles amended and supplemented under Law No. 35/2018/QH14 and Law No. 93/2025/QH15, ceases to be effective on the effective date of this Law, except Article 51 of this Law.
Article 51. Transitional provisions 
Press agencies under social organisations and socio-professional organisations that have press operation licenses issued before the effective date of this Law may continue to operate until their licenses expire.