
RESOLUTION
Guiding the application of a number of regulations on interests, interest rates and fines for violations[ Công Báo Nos 253-254 (03/3/2019)]

THE JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF THE SUPREME PEOPLE’S COURT
Pursuant to the November 24, 2014 Law on Organization of People’s Courts;
In order to correctly and uniformly apply the regulations on interests, interest rates and fines for violations;
After consulting the Procurator General of the Supreme People’ Procuracy and Minister of Justice,

RESOLVES:
Article 1. Scope of regulation
This Resolution guides the application of a number of regulations on interests, interest rates and fines for violations under asset-based loan contracts; average interest rates in the market; and decision on interests and interest rates under court judgments or rulings.
Asset-based loan contracts referred to in this Resolution include contracts on cash lending between credit institutions and clients (below referred to as credit contracts), and contracts on cash lending between individuals or legal persons other than credit institutions themselves (below referred to as asset-based loan contracts other than credit contracts).
Article 2. Application of laws on interests and interest rates under asset-based loan contracts other than credit contracts
1. For asset-based loan contracts other than credit contracts entered into before January 1, 2017 (the effective date of the 2015 Civil Code), the application of laws on interests and interest rates is prescribed as follows:
a/ Completed contract means a contract the parties to which have fulfilled their rights and obligations as agreed upon and other rights and obligations arising from the contract as prescribed by law.
For dispute-involving contracts completed before January 1, 2017, the 2005 Civil Code, the National Assembly’s Resolution No. 45/2005/NQ-QH11 of June 14, 2005, on implementation of the Civil Code, and legal documents detailing and guiding the application of the 2005 Civil Code, shall apply;
Example 1: On December 20, 2015, A signed a contract to lend B an amount of VND 10 billion with a term of one year and an agreed interest rate of 18% per year. The contract had come into force and B has paid both loan principal and interest as agreed upon in the contract. On February 20, 2018, B initiated a lawsuit to request A to pay interest because the applied interest rate exceeded 150% of the prime interest rate specified in Decision No. 2868/QD-NHNN of November 29, 2010, of the State Bank of Vietnam (under which the prime interest rate is 9% per year, so the applied interest rate should be 13.5% per year). In this case, the court shall apply Article 476 of the 2005 Civil Code for determining interest rate and excessive interest rate.
b/ Unperformed contract means a contract to which the parties are yet to fulfill their rights and obligations as agreed upon and other rights and obligations arising from the contract as prescribed by law.
For unperformed contracts under which the applied interests and interest rates comply with the 2015 Civil Code, the 2015 Civil Code and legal documents detailing and guiding the application of this Code shall apply. In case the applied interests and interest rates do not comply with the 2015 Civil Code, the 2005 Civil Code, the National Assembly’s Resolution No. 45/2005/QH11 of June 14, 2005, on implementation of the Civil Code, and legal documents detailing and guiding the application of the 2005 Civil Code shall apply, unless the parties agree on the modification of interests and interest rates to comply with the 2015 Civil Code and to apply the 2015 Civil Code.
c/ Ongoing contract means a contract to which the parties have not yet fulfilled their rights and obligations as agreed upon and other rights and obligations arising from the contract as prescribed by law.
For ongoing contracts under which the applied interests and interest rates do not comply with the 2015 Civil Code, the 2005 Civil Code, the National Assembly’s Resolution No. 45/2005/QH11 of June 14, 2005, on implementation of the Civil Code, and legal documents detailing and guiding the application of the 2005 Civil Code shall apply.
For ongoing contracts under which the applied interests and interest rates comply with the 2015 Civil Code, the application of laws for determining interests and interest rates is prescribed as follows:
For the period prior to January 1, 2006, the 1995 Civil Code, the National Assembly’s Resolution dated October 28, 1995, on implementation of the Civil Code, and legal documents guiding the application of the 1995 Civil Code shall apply.
For the period from January 1, 2006, to before January 1, 2017, the 2005 Civil Code, the National Assembly’s Resolution No. 45/2005/QH11 of June 14, 2005, on implementation of the Civil Code, and legal documents detailing and guiding the application of the 2005 Civil Code, shall apply.
From January 1, 2017, the 2015 Civil Code and legal documents detailing and guiding the application of this Code shall apply.
Example 2: On January 1, 2003, A lent B an amount of VND 100 million (under an indefinite-term loan contract) with an agreed interest rate of 8% per year. On January 1, 2018, A initiated a lawsuit to request B to pay the loan principal and interest under the contract. In this case, for the period from January 1, 2003, to before January 1, 2006, the court shall apply Article 473 of the 1995 Civil Code and legal documents guiding the application of this Code to determine interest and interest rate; for the period from January 1, 2006, to before January 1, 2017, the court shall apply Article 476 of the 2005 Civil Code to determine interest and interest rate; and for the period from January 1, 2017, to the date of first-instance trial, the court shall apply Article 468 of the 2015 Civil Code to determine interest and interest rate.
2. For asset-based loan contracts other than credit contracts which are entered into on or after January 1, 2017, the provisions on interests and interest rates of the 2015 Civil Code and legal documents detailing and guiding the application of this Code shall apply.
3. For asset-based loan contracts other than credit contracts, interests and interest rates must comply with the 2015 Civil Code as guided in Clause 1 of this Article in one of the following cases:
a/ The agreed interest rate does not exceed the limit interest rate prescribed in Article 468 of the 2015 Civil Code.
Example 3: On January 20, 2016, A signed a contract to lend B an amount of VND 100 million with an agreed interest rate of 18% per year. This rate does not exceed the limit interest rate prescribed in Article 468 of the 2015 Civil Code, so such agreement complies with the 2015 Civil Code.
b/ The agreed interest and interest rate are prescribed in the 2015 Civil Code but not prescribed by any law effective before the date the 2015 Civil Code takes effect.
Example 4: On January 20, 2016, A signed a contract to lend B an amount of VND 100 million with an agreed interest rate of 18% per year and the interest rate for the owed interest of 0.1% per year. The agreement on interest on the owed interest is not prescribed in the 1995 and 2005 Civil Codes and legal documents detailing and guiding the application of these Codes but is stipulated in the 2015 Civil Code, therefore, such agreement complies with the 2015 Civil Code.
c/ Interest and interest rate are prescribed in the 2015 Civil Code but otherwise prescribed by a law effective before the date the 2015 Civil Code takes effect.
Example 5: On January 20, 2016, A signed a contract to lend B an amount of VND 100 million without interest and with a term of 3 years. If the parties have no agreement on interest on overdue loan principal, the calculation of interest on unpaid overdue loan principal from the date following the maturity date (January 21, 2019) complies with the 2015 Civil Code.
Article 3. Determination of interests and interest rates under asset-based loan contracts other than credit contracts subject to the application of the 1995 Civil Code
For asset-based loan contracts other than credit contracts which are entered into before January 1, 2006, and are subject to the application of the 1995 Civil Code as guided in Article 2 of this Resolution, at the time of first-instance trial, interests and interest rates shall be determined as follows:
1. When an interest-free loan contract becomes mature but the borrower fails to pay or fully pay the debt, it/he/she shall pay an interest on overdue loan principal at the interest rate for term savings set by the State Bank at the time of debt payment corresponding to the late payment period, if the parties have an agreement on interest on overdue loan principal.
Interest on unpaid overdue loan principal = (unpaid overdue loan principal) x (term savings interest rate set by the State Bank at the time of debt payment) x (late payment period for loan principal).
2. When an interest-bearing loan contract becomes mature but the borrower fails to pay or fully pay the debt, interest and interest rate shall be determined as follows:
a/ Interest on unpaid immature loan principal shall be paid at the agreed interest rate but must not exceed 50% of the highest interest rate set by the State Bank for similar loans at the time of contract entry corresponding to the period during which the loan interest has not been paid. If the parties do not specify interest rate, the term savings interest rate set by the State Bank at the time of debt payment shall apply.
Interest on unpaid immature loan principal = (unpaid loan principal) x (agreed interest rate) or (term savings interest rate set by the State Bank at the time of debt payment) x (period during which the loan interest has not been paid);
b/ Interest on unpaid overdue loan principal shall be paid at the overdue debt interest rate set by the State Bank at the time of debt payment corresponding to the late payment period.
Interest on unpaid overdue loan principal = (unpaid overdue loan principal) x (overdue debt interest rate set by the State Bank at the time of debt payment) x (late payment period for loan principal).
3. When determining interests and interest rates under Clauses 1 and 2 of this Article, the court may not calculate interests on owed interests left unpaid.
Article 4. Determination of interests and interest rates under asset-based loan contracts other than credit contracts subject to the application of the 2005 Civil Code
For asset-based loan contracts other than credit contracts which are entered into before January 1, 2017, and are subject to the application of the 2005 Civil Code as guided in Article 2 of this Resolution, at the time of first-instance trial, interests and interest rates shall be determined as follows:
1. When an interest-free loan contract becomes mature but the borrower fails to pay or fully pay the debt, it/he/she shall pay an interest on overdue loan principal at the prime interest rate announced by the State Bank at the time of debt payment corresponding to the late payment period, if the parties have an agreement on interest on overdue loan principal.
Interest on unpaid overdue loan principal = (unpaid overdue loan principal) x (prime interest rate announced by the State Bank at the time of debt payment) x (late payment period for loan principal).
2. When an interest-bearing loan contract becomes mature but the borrower fails to pay or fully pay the debt, interest and interest rate shall be determined as follows:
a/ Interest on unpaid immature loan principal shall be paid at the agreed interest rate but must not exceed 150% of the prime interest rate announced by the State Bank at the time of contract entry corresponding to the period during which the loan interest has not been paid. If the parties do not specify interest rate, the prime interest rate announced by the State Bank at the time of debt payment shall apply.
Interest on unpaid immature loan principal = (unpaid loan principal) x (agreed interest rate or prime interest rate announced by the State Bank at the time of contract entry) x (period during which interest on the loan principal has not been paid);
b/ Interest on unpaid overdue loan principal shall be paid at the prime interest rate announced by the State Bank at the time of debt payment corresponding to the late payment period.
Interest on unpaid overdue loan principal = (unpaid overdue loan principal) x (prime interest rate announced by the State Bank at the time of debt payment) x (late payment period for loan principal).
3. When determining interests and interest rates under Clauses 1 and 2 of this Article, the court may not calculate interests on owed interests left unpaid.
Article 5. Determination of interests and interest rates under asset-based loan contracts other than credit contracts subject to the application of the 2015 Civil Code
For asset-based loan contracts other than credit contracts which are entered into on or after January 1, 2017, or which are entered into before January 1, 2017, but are subject to the application of the 2015 Civil Code as guided in Article 2 of this Resolution, at the time of first-instance trial, interests and interest rates shall be determined as follows:
1. When an interest-free loan contract becomes mature but the borrower fails to pay or fully pay the debt, the court shall, at the lender’s request, confirm that the borrower shall pay an interest on overdue loan principal at the rate prescribed in Clause 2, Article 468 of the 2015 Civil Code on the late-paid amount at the time of debt payment corresponding to the late payment period, unless otherwise agreed upon by the parties or prescribed by law.
Interest on unpaid overdue loan principal = (unpaid overdue loan principal) x (interest rate prescribed in Clause 2, Article 468 of the 2015 Civil Code at the time of debt payment) x (late payment period).
2. When an interest-bearing loan contract becomes mature but the borrower fails to pay or fully pay the debt, interest and interest rate shall be determined as follows:
a/ Interest on unpaid immature loan principal shall be paid at the agreed interest rate but must not exceed the interest rate prescribed in Clause 1, Article 468 of the 2015 Civil Code corresponding to the period during which interest on the loan principal has not been paid at the time of contract entry. If the parties have an agreement on interest payment but do not specify interest rate, while a dispute arises, interest rate shall be determined as equal to 50% of the limit interest rate prescribed in Clause 1, Article 468 of the 2015 Civil Code at the time of debt payment.
Interest on unpaid immature loan principal = (unpaid loan principal) x (agreed interest rate or interest rate equal to 50% of the limit interest rate prescribed in Clause 1, Article 468 of the 2015 Civil Code at the time of debt payment) x (period during which interest on the loan principal has not been paid).
b/ In case of late payment of interest on immature loan principal, the borrower shall also pay an interest on the owed interest at the rate prescribed in Clause 2, Article 468 of the 2015 Civil Code at the time of debt payment corresponding to the late payment period, unless otherwise agreed upon by the parties.
Interest on the owed interest left unpaid = (owed interest left unpaid) x (interest rate prescribed in Clause 2, Article 468 of the 2015 Civil Code at the time of debt payment) x (late payment period for loan principal).
c/ Interest on the owed interest left unpaid is equal to 150% of the loan interest rate agreed upon by the contracting parties corresponding to the late payment period, unless otherwise agreed upon by the parties. The agreed interest rate must not exceed 150% of the rate prescribed in Clause 1, Article 468 of the 2015 Civil Code.
Interest on unpaid overdue loan principal = (unpaid overdue loan principal) x (interest rate agreed upon by the parties or interest rate equal to 150% of the loan interest rate agreed upon by the parties) x (late payment period for loan principal).
Article 6. Determination of the time of first-instance trial and late payment period
1. “Time of first-instance trial” referred to in this Resolution is the date the court issues a ruling to recognize the agreement reached by the involved parties or the date the court pronounces a judgment upon first-instance trial or reopening trial.
2. “Time of debt payment” referred to in Articles 3, 4 and 5 of this Resolution is the time of first-instance trial.
3. “Late payment period” referred to in Articles 3, 4 and 5 of this Resolution shall be determined as follows:
a/ For indefinite-term loan contracts, the late payment period for loan principal starts from the date following the date of expiration of the “reasonable period” to the time of first-instance trial. “Reasonable period” prescribed in Article 474 of the 1995 Civil Code, Article 477 of the 2005 Civil Code, or Article 469 of the 2015 Civil Code shall be decided by the court on a case-by-case basis which, however, must not exceed 3 months from the date of notification;
b/ For definite-term loan contracts, the late payment period for loan principal starts from the date following the date of expiration of the loan term to the time of first-instance trial, unless otherwise agreed upon by the parties;
c/ The late payment period for interest on unpaid loan principal starts from the date following the intended date of payment of interest on loan principal to the time of first-instance trial, unless otherwise agreed upon by the parties.
Article 7. Application of laws on interests and interest rates under credit contracts
1. Interest and interest rate under a credit contract shall be agreed upon by the parties in accordance with the Law on Credit Institutions and legal documents detailing and guiding the application of this Law at the time of contract entry or time of interest calculation.
2. When settling a dispute over a credit contract, the court shall apply the Law on Credit Institutions and legal documents detailing and guiding the application of this Law but not the provision on interest rate limit of the 2005 Civil Code or the 2015 Civil Code for determining interest and interest rate.
Article 8. Determination of interests and interest rates under credit contracts at the time of first-instance trial
1. At the time of first-instance trial, interest and interest rate under a credit contract entered into before January 1, 2017, shall be determined as follows:
a/ Interest on unpaid immature loan principal shall be determined based on the interest rate agreed upon by the parties but must comply with the Law on Credit Institutions and legal documents prescribing interest rates applicable to credit contracts at the time of contract entry or time of interest calculation corresponding to the period during which the loan has not been repaid;
b/ Interest on unpaid overdue loan principal shall be determined as agreed upon by the parties but must comply with the Law on Credit Institutions and legal documents prescribing interest rates applicable to credit contracts at the time of contract entry.
2. At the time of first-instance trial, interest and interest rate under a credit contract entered into on or after January 1, 2017, shall be determined as follows:
a/ Interest on loan principal or interest on overdue loan principal shall be determined under Clause 1 of this Article;
b/ In case the client fails to pay on time the interest on loan principal as agreed upon in the credit contract, it/he/she shall pay a late-payment interest at the rate agreed upon by the credit institution and the client which, however, must not exceed the law-prescribed limit interest rate corresponding to the late payment period for interest on immature loan principal.
3. The late payment period for loan principal starts from the date of transfer of overdue debt to the time of first-instance trial, unless otherwise agreed upon by the parties.
4. The late payment period for interest on loan principal starts from the date following the intended date of payment of interest on loan principal to the time of first-instance trial, unless otherwise agreed upon by the parties. 
Article 9. Handling of cases in which the agreed interests and interest rates are higher than those prescribed by law
In case an asset-based loan contract contains an agreement on interest rate, interest on overdue loan principal, and interest on overdue owed interest higher than those prescribed by law, the excessive ones are invalidated. The paid excessive interest amount shall be included in the loan principal at the time of interest payment; the remainder, if any, shall be refunded to the borrower.
Article 10. Adjustment of interests and interest rates
In case the parties have an agreement on adjustment of loan interests and interest rates, such interests and interest rates shall be determined based on such agreement and legal documents prescribing interests and interest rates effective at the time of adjustment.
Article 11. Determination of average interest rates prescribed in Article 306 of the 2005 Commercial Law
In case a contract is regulated by Article 306 of the 2005 Commercial Law, when determining the late payment interest rate for a late-paid amount, the court shall base itself on the average interest rate for overdue debts in the market applied by at least 3 (three) commercial banks (e.g., Joint-Stock Commercial Bank for Foreign Trade of Vietnam, Vietnam Joint-Stock Commercial Bank for Industry and Trade, Vietnam Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development, etc.) that have their head offices, branches or transaction bureaus based in the province or centrally run city where is located the head office of the court that is settling the case at the time of payment (the time of first-instance trial) to decide on the late payment interest rate, unless otherwise agreed upon by the parties or otherwise prescribed by law.
Article 12. Handling of failure to pay debts on time under asset-based loan contracts
1. In case an asset-based loan contract contains an agreement on handling of the borrower’s failure to pay debts on time, the court shall consider and rule on the principle that every act of failure to pay debts on time shall be handled only once.
2. In case an asset-based loan contract contains both an agreement on fine for violation and an agreement on interest on overdue loan principal or another form of agreement applicable to the borrower’s failure to pay debts on time, the court shall base itself on relevant provisions of the Civil Code, Law on Credit Institutions, and legal documents detailing and guiding the application of the Civil Code and Law on Credit Institutions at the time of contract entry or time of interest calculation to consider and rule on handling such failure on the principle mentioned in Clause 1 of this Article.
Article 13. Decision on interests and interest rates under court judgments or rulings
1. When settling a criminal case, an administrative case or a civil, marriage and family, business, commercial, or labor case or matter, the court shall, together with ruling on the amount payable by the judgment debtor to the judgment creditor, rule in its judgment or ruling (the ruling part) as follows:
a/ In case of late performance of the contractual obligation, if the contracting parties have an agreement on interest payment, the court shall decide that from the date following the date of first-instance trial to the date of completing the judgment execution, the judgment debtor is also obliged to pay interest on the unpaid amount for judgment execution at the rate agreed upon by the parties which, however, must comply with law; if no agreement on interest rate is reached, the rate prescribed in Clause 2, Article 468 of the 2015 Civil Code shall apply.
b/ For the amount to be remitted into the state budget which bears interest under law; or for the amount of compensation for non-contractual damage; or in another case of late performance of the asset-related contractual or non-contractual obligation where the contracting parties have no agreement on interest payment, the court shall rule that from the date the court judgment or ruling takes legal effect (in case the judgment execution body has the right to make a decision on judgment execution) or from the date of receipt of the judgment creditor’s request for judgment execution (for the amount payable to the judgment creditor) to the date of completing judgment execution, the judgment debtor shall also pay an interest on the unpaid amount for judgment execution at the rate prescribed in Article 357 or 468 of the 2015 Civil Code, unless otherwise prescribed by law.
2. “Agreed interest rate” prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article means an interest rate for overdue debt agreed upon by the parties under the contract or at the court. If the parties have no agreement on such interest rate, the rate equaling 150% of the interest rate for immature loans shall apply.
Article 14. Effect
1. This Resolution was adopted on January 11, 2019, by the Judicial Council of the Supreme People’s Court, and takes effect on March 15, 2019.
2. For criminal or administrative cases or civil, marriage and family, business, commercial, or labor cases or matters which are accepted by the court before the effective date of this Resolution but for which first-instance trial, appellate trial, cassation trial or reopening trial is conducted on or after this date, this Resolution shall apply.
3. For criminal or administrative cases or civil, marriage and family, business, commercial, or labor cases or matters which are accepted and settled by the court and the court judgments or rulings take legal effect before the effective date of this Resolution, this Resolution shall not be applied for filing protests according to cassation or reopening procedures, unless such judgments or rulings are protested against based on other grounds.